# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-6

# Q1-Q.5 carry one mark each:

1. The expenditure of the project follows: equipment Rs.20 lakhs, salaries Rs.12 lakhs, and contingency Rs.3 lakhs
- (A) break down
- (B) break
- (C) breaks down
- (D) breaks
2. The search engine's business model revolves around the fulcrum of trust
- (A) revolves
- (B) plays
- (C) sinks
- (D) bursts
3. The speed of the first car is 50 km/h and the speed of the second car is 60 km/h: Two cars start at the same time from the same location and go in the same direction. The number of hours it takes for the distance between the two cars to be 20 km is
- (A) 1
- (B) 2
- (C) 3
- (D)
4. Ten friends planned to share equally the cost of buying a gift for their teacher: When two of the friends dropped out, the cost of the gift was Rs.
- (A) 666
- (B) 3000
- (C) 6000
- (D) 12000
5. A court is to a judge as _____ is to a teacher
- (A) a student
- (B) punishment
- (C) syllabus
- (D) school

# Q.6-Q.10 carry two marks each:

The police arrested four criminals P, Q, R, and S. The criminals knew each other. They made the following statements:

- P says "I committed the crime"
- Q says "S committed the crime"
- R says "T did not do it."
- S says "What Q said about me is false"

Assume only one of the arrested four committed the crime and only one of the statements made above is true. Who committed the crime?

- (A) P
- (B) R
- (C) S
- (D) Q
---
# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA)

# Set-6

# Q.7

In the given diagram; teachers are represented in the triangle, researchers in the circle and administrators in the rectangle. Out of the total number of the people, the percentage of administrators shall be in the range of

|Teachers|10|70|20|
|---|---|---|---|
|Administrators|20| | |
|Researchers|40| | |

(A) 0 to 15  (B) 16 to 30  (C) 31 to 45  (D) 46 to 60

# Q.8

A recent High Court judgement has sought to dispel the idea of begging as a disease which leads to its stigmatization and criminalization to protect citizens who fall through the social security net: Which one of the following statements can be inferred from the given passage?

- Beggars are lazy people who beg because they are unwilling to work
- Beggars are created because of the lack of social welfare schemes
- Begging has to be banned because it dealt with firmly
- Begging is an offence that has to be adversely affects the welfare of the state

# Q.9

In a college, there are three student clubs. Sixty students are only in the Drama club, 80 students are only in the Dance club, 0 students are only in the Maths club, 40 students are in both Drama and Dance clubs, 12 students are in both Dance and Maths clubs, and students are in both Drama and Maths clubs, and 2 students are in all the clubs. If 75% of the students in the college are not in any of these clubs, then the total number of students in the college is

(A) 1000  (B) 975  (C) 900  (D) 225

GA 21/3
---
# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-6

Q.10 Thee of the five students allocated to a hoste plan that will accommodate all their requests put in special requests to the warden. Given the floor plan of the vacant rooms, select the allocator.

- Request by X: Due to pollen allergy: want to avoid a wing next to the garden.
- Request by Y: I want to live as far from the washrooms as possible, since I am very sensitive to smell.
- Request by Z: I believe in Vaastu and so want to stay in the South-west wing.

The shaded rooms are already occupied.

|WR|J|N|J|
|---|---|---|---|
|W|WR|X|J|
|WR|N|J|Entrance|
|W|WR|X|Z|

END OF THE QUESTION PAPER
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and

# Q.1

A certain processor uses a fully associative cache of size 16 kB. The cache block size is 16 bytes. Assume that the main memory is byte addressable and uses a 32-bit address. How many bits are required for the Tag and the Index fields respectively in the addresses generated by the processor?

- (A) 24 bits and 0 bits
- (B) 28 bits and 4 bits
- (C) 24 bits and 4 bits
- (D) 28 bits and 0 bits

# Q.2

The chip select logic for a certain DRAM chip in a memory system design is shown below. Assume that the memory system has 16 address lines denoted by A1 to A0. What is the range of addresses (in hexadecimal) of the memory system that can get enabled by the chip select (CS) signal?

- (A) C800 to CFFF
- (B) CA00 to CAFF
- (C) C800 to CSFF
- (D) DA00 to DFFF

# Q.3

Which one of the following kinds of derivation is used by LR parsers?

- (A) Leftmost
- (B) Leftmost in reverse
- (C) Rightmost
- (D) Rightmost in reverse

# Q.4

In 16-bit 2's complement representation, the decimal number -28 is:

- 1111 0001 1100
- 0000 0000 1110 0100
- 1111 1111 1110 0100
- 1000 0000 1110 0100

# Q.5

Let U = {1,2, ..., n}. Let A = {(x,X) | x, X ∈ U}. Consider the following two statements on |A|:

|A| = n(n-1)

G(n) = |A| = ∑k=1n k

Which of the above statements is/are TRUE?

- (A) Only I
- (B) Only II
- (C) Both I and II
- (D) Neither I nor II

1/15

Information Technology Set-2
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and

# Q.6

Which one of the following is NOT a valid identity?

- (A) (x € y) € z = x € (y € z)
- (B) (x + y) 0 z = x 0 (y + z)
- (C) x € y = x + y if xy = 0
- (D) x € y (xy + xy)

# Q.7

If L is a regular language over Σ = {a, b}, which one of the following languages is NOT regular?

- (A) L. LR = {xy | x ∈ L, yR ∈ L}
- (B) {wwR | w ∈ L}
- (C) Suffix(L) = {y ∈ Σ* | ∃ x ∈ Σ* such that xy ∈ L}

# Q.8

Consider Z = X - Y, where X and Y are each represented in n bits. To avoid overflow, the representation of Z would require a minimum of:

- n bits
- n - 1 bits
- n + 1 bits
- n + 2 bits

# Q.9

Let X be a square matrix. Consider the following two statements on X:

- X is invertible

Which one of the following is TRUE?

- (A) I implies I; I does not imply L
- (B) I implies I; I does not imply I
- (C) I does not imply I; I does not imply I
- (D) I and I are equivalent statements.

# Q.10

Let G be an arbitrary group. Consider the following relations on G:

- R1: ∀a, b ∈ G, a R1 b if and only if a = b-1
- R2: ∀a, b ∈ G, a R2 b if and only if ∃g ∈ G such that a = g-1bg

Which of the above is/are equivalence relation/relations?

- (A) R1 and R2
- (B) R1 only
- (C) R2 only
- (D) Neither R1 nor R2

2/15

# Information Technology Set-2
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and Information Technology Set-2

# Q.11

Consider the following two statements about database transaction schedules:

- Strict two-phase locking protocol generates conflict serializable schedules that are also recoverable.
- Timestamp-ordering concurrency control protocol with Thomas' Write Rule can generate view serializable schedules that are not conflict serializable.

Which of the above statements is/are TRUE?

- (A) I only
- (B) II only
- (C) Both I and II
- (D) Neither I nor II

# Q.12

Let G be an undirected complete graph on n vertices, where n ≥ 2. Then, the number of different Hamiltonian cycles in G is equal to:

- (A) n!
- (B) (n - 1)!
- (C) 1
- (D) 652

# Q.13

Compute lim x→3 (2x2 - 5x - 3) / (x4 - 81)

- (A) 1
- (B) 53/12
- (C) 108/
- (D) Limit does not exist

# Q.14

Which one of the following statements is NOT correct about the B+ tree data structure used for creating an index of a relational database table?

- (A) B+ Tree is a height-balanced tree
- (B) Non-leaf nodes have pointers to data records
- (C) Key values in each node are kept in sorted order
- (D) Each leaf node has a pointer to the next leaf node

# Q.15

For Σ = {a,b}, let us consider the regular language L = {x | x = a2+3k or x = b10+1z, k ≥ 0}. Which one of the following can be a pumping length (the constant guaranteed by the pumping lemma) for L?

- (A) 3
- (B) 5
- (C) 24

# Q.16

Which of the following protocol pairs can be used to send and retrieve e-mails (in that order)?

- (A) IMAP, POP3
- (B) SMTP, POP3
- (C) SMTP, MME
- (D) MAP, SMTP
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and Information Technology Set-2

# Q.17

The following program is executed on Unix Linux system:

#include &lt;unistd.h&gt;
int main( )
int i;
for (i=0; i<10; i++)
if (i % 2 == 0) fork();
return 0;

The total number of child processes created is

# Q.18

Consider the following program:

#include &lt;stdio.h&gt;
int jumble(int x, int y) {
x = 2*x + y;
return x;
}
int main( ) {
int x = 2, y = 5;
y = jumble(y, x);
x = jumble(y, x);
return 0;
}

The value printed by the program is

# Q.19

Consider the grammar given below:

S -> Aa
A -> BD
B -> b | ε
D -> d | ε

Let a, b, d, and $ be indexed as follows:

Compute the FOLLOW set of the non-terminal B and write the index values for the symbols in the FOLLOW set in descending order:

Answer:

4/15
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and Information Technology Set-2

# Q.20

An array of 25 distinct elements is to be sorted using quicksort. Assume that the pivot element is chosen uniformly at random. The worst possible location in the first partitioning (rounded off to 2 decimal places) is

# Q.21

The value of 351 mod 5 is

# Q.22

Two numbers are chosen independently and uniformly at random from the set {1, 2, ..., 13}. The probability (rounded off to two decimal places) that their 4-bit (unsigned) binary representations have the same most significant bit is

# Q.23

Consider three concurrent processes P1, P2, and P3 as shown below; which access a shared variable D that has been initialized to 10:

|P1|P2|P3|
|---|---|---|
|D = D + 20|D = D - 50|D = D + 10|

The processes are executed on a uniprocessor system running a time-shared operating system. If the minimum and maximum possible values of D after the three processes have completed execution are X and Y respectively, then the value of Y - X is

# Q.24

Consider the following C program:

#include <stdio.h>
int main() {
int arr[] = {1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0, 1, 2, 5};
printf("%d", arr[5]);
return 0;
}

The number that will be displayed on execution of the program is
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and Information Technology Set-2

# Q.25

Consider a sequence of 14 elements: A

[-5, -10, 6, 3, -1, -2, 13, 4, -9, -1, 4, 12, -3, 0].

The subsequence SUI S(i,j) Ek= A[k] Determine the maximum of S(i,j), where 0 < i < j < 14. (Divide and conquer approach may be used)

Answer:

# Q.26

Consider the following C function:

void convert(int n) {
if(n < 0)
printf("%d", n);
else
convert(n / 2);
printf("%d", n % 2);
}

Which one of the following will happen when the function convert is called with any positive integer n as argument?

- (A) It will print the binary representation of n but will not terminate
- (B) It will print the binary representation of n in the reverse order and terminate
- (C) It will print nothing and will not terminate

# Q.27

Consider the following C program:

#include <stdio.h>
int r() {
static int num = 7;
return num--;
}
int main() {
for (r(); r(); )
printf("%d", r());
return 0;
}

Which one of the following values will be displayed on execution of the program?
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and Information Technology Set-2

# Q28

Consider three machines M, N, and P with IP addresses 100.105.2.0, 100.105.2.1, and 100.105.2.2 respectively: Which one of the following is true?

- (A) M, N, and P all belong to the same subnet
- (B) Only M and N belong to the same subnet
- (C) Only N and P belong to the same subnet
- (D) M, N, and P belong to three different subnets

# Q29

Suppose that in a PPP-over-Ethernet network, machine X wishes to find the MAC address of another machine Y in its subnet. Which one of the following techniques can be used for this?

- (A) X sends an ARP request packet to the local gateway's IP address which then finds the MAC address of Y and sends it to X
- (B) X sends an ARP request packet to the MAC address of Y and sends it to the local gateway's MAC address which then finds it
- (C) X sends an ARP request packet with broadcast MAC address in its local subnet
- (D) X sends an ARP request packet with broadcast IP address in its local subnet

# Q30

Consider three 4-variable functions f1, f2, and f3, which are expressed in Sum-of-minterms as:

f1 = Σ(0, 2, 5, 8, 14), f2 = Σ(2, 7, 11, 14), f3 = Σ(2, 3, 6, 8, 14, 15)

For the following circuit with one AND gate and one XOR gate, the output function f can be:

- (A) Σ(2, 7, 8, 11, 14)
- (B) Σ(7, 8, 11)
- (C) Σ(2, 14)
- (D) Σ(0, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 14, 15)

# Q31

Which one of the following languages over Σ = {a, b} is NOT context-free?

- (A) {w a^n b^n w^R | w ∈ {a, b}^*, n ≥ 0}
- (B) {w w^R | w ∈ {a, b}^*}
- (C) {w a^n w^R b^n | w ∈ {a, b}, n ≥ 0}
- (D) {a^i b^i | i ∈ {n, 3n, 5n}, n ≥ 0}
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and Information Technology Set-2

# Q32

Let the set of functional dependencies {QR → S, R → P; S → Q} hold on relation schema X = (PQRS). X is not in BCNF. Suppose X is decomposed into two schemas Y and Z, where Y = (PR) and Z = (QRS). Consider the two statements given below:

- Both Y and Z are in BCNF
- Decomposition of X into Y and Z is dependency preserving and lossless

Which of the above statements is/are correct?

- (A) Both I and II
- (B) I only
- (C) II only
- (D) Neither I nor II

# Q33

Assume that in a certain long computer, the virtual addresses are 64 bits long and the physical addresses are 48 bits. The memory is word addressable. The page size is 8 kB and the word size is 4 bytes. The Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB) in the address translation path has 128 valid entries. At most how many distinct virtual addresses can be translated without any TLB miss?

- (A) 16 × 210
- (B) 256 × 210
- (C) 4 × 220
- (D) 8 × 220

# Q34

Consider the following sets:

- S1 - Set of all recursively enumerable languages over the alphabet {0}
- S2 - Set of all syntactically valid C programs
- S3 - Set of all languages over the alphabet {0,1}
- S4 - Set of all non-regular languages over the alphabet {0,1}

Which of the above sets are uncountable?

- (A) S1 and S2
- (B) S3 and S4
- (C) S2 and S3
- (D) S1 and S4

# Q35

Consider the first order predicate formula:

∀x [(∀z z|x = ((z = x) ∨ (z = 1))) = ∀w (w > x) ∧ (∀z z|w = ((w = 2) ∨ (z = 1)))]

Here a|b denotes that a divides b. Let a and b be sets:

- S1 = {1, 2, 3, ..., 100} (all positive integers)
- S3 - Set of all integers

Which of the above sets satisfy 0?

- (A) S1 and S2
- (B) S1 and S3
- (C) S2 and S3
- (D) S1, S2 and S3
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and

# Q36

Consider the following grammar and semantic actions to support the inherited type declaration attributes. Let X1, X2, X3, X4, and X5 be the placeholders for the non-terminals D, T, L or L1 in the following table:

|Production rule|Semantic action|
|---|---|
|D-TL|X1.type = X2.type|
|T -> int|T.type = int|
|T -> float|T.type = float|
|L -> L1, id|X3.type = X4.type|
|LSid|addT = addT(id.entry, X5.type)|

Which one of the following are the appropriate choices for X1, X2, X3 and X4?

- (A) X1 = L, X2 = T, X3 = L1, X4 = L
- (B) X1 = T, X2 = L, X3 = L1, X4 = T
- (C) X1 = L, X2 = L, X3 = L1, X4 = T
- (D) X1 = T, X2 = L, X3 = T, X4 = L1

# Q37

There are unsorted arrays: A1, A2, An. Assume that n is odd. Each of A1, A2, An contains n distinct elements. There are common elements between any two arrays. The worst-case time complexity of computing the median of the medians of A1, A2, An is:

O(n) O(n)

# Q38

Let G be any connected, weighted, undirected graph:

G has a unique minimum spanning tree, if no two edges of G have the same weight:

G has a unique minimum spanning tree, if, for every cut of G, there is a unique minimum-weight edge crossing the cut.

Which of the above two statements are TRUE?

- (A) I only
- (B) II only
- (C) Both I and II
- (D) Neither I nor II

9/15

Information Technology Set-2
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and Information Technology Set-2

# Q39

holding X instances of a resource R

Consider the following snapshot of a system running n concurrent processes Process i is currently in use. Further for all i, process S i can place a request for at most holding the Xi instances it already has. Which one of the following conditions guarantees that no other process apart from p and q can complete execution?

- (A) Xp + Xq < Min {Yk | 1 < k < n, k ≠ p, k ≠ q}
- (B) Xp + Xq ≥ 2 Min {Yk | 1 < k < n, k ≠ p, k ≠ q}
- (C) Min (Xp, Xq) ≥ Max {Yk | 1 < k < n, k ≠ p, k ≠ q}

# Q40

Consider the following statements:

1. The smallest element in a max-heap is always at a leaf node
2. The second largest element in a max-heap is always a child of the root node
3. A max-heap can be constructed from a binary search tree in O(n) time
4. A binary search tree can be constructed from a max-heap in O(n) time

Which of the above statements are TRUE?

- (A) I, II and III
- (B) II and IV
- (C) I, II and IV
- (D) I, II and IV

# Q41

Consider the following four processes with arrival times (in milliseconds) and their length of CPU bursts (in milliseconds) as shown below:

|Process|P1|P2|P3|P4|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Arrival time| | | | |
|CPU burst time| | | | |

First scheduling algorithm: If the average waiting time of the processes is millisecond, then the value of Z is

# Q42

The index node (inode) of a Unix-like file system has size 4 kB, and the disk block address is 32-bits. The inode has 12 direct, one single-indirect and one double-indirect pointers. The maximum possible file size is
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and Information Technology Set-2

# Q.43

Consider the augmented grammar given below:

S' → S
S → (L) | id
LS | S

Let I0 = CLOSURE ({[S' → .S]} The number of items in the set GOTO (I0 , ( ) is:

# Q.44

Consider the following matrix:

| |R =|3|9|27|
|---|---|---|---|---|
| | |4|16|64|
| | |5|25|125|

The absolute value of the product of Eigen values of R is

# Q.45

A certain processor deploys a single-level cache. The cache block size is & words and the word size is 4 bytes. The memory system uses a 60-MHz clock. To service a cache miss, the memory controller first takes 1 cycle to request the block at the rate of 1 word per cycle; and finally transmits the words of the block; it then takes cycles to fetch all the eight words of the block except the starting address of the block; it then takes cycle. The maximum bandwidth for the memory system when the program running on the processor issues a series of read operations is

# Q.46

Two leaves a and b of T are chosen uniformly and independently at random: (A full binary tree has every level full) Suppose Let T be a full binary tree with 8 leaves. The expected value of the distance between a and b (rounded off to 2 decimal places) is

# Q.47

The polynomial 3x² + 6xy + 3y + 6 has

Suppose Y is distributed uniformly in the open interval (1,6). The probability that the polynomial has real roots is (rounded off to decimal place)

# Q.48

Let X be the set of all bijections from {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}, where id denotes the identity function, i.e., id(j) = j, ∀j:

Consider the language L = {x ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} | x1 x2 ... xn ∈ En, n ≥ 0} let w(x) = id ∘ x1 x2 ... xn. The minimum number of states in any DFA accepting L is

11/15
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and Information Technology Set-2

# Q49

Consider that 15 machines need to be connected in a LAN using 8-port Ethernet switches. The minimum number of switches needed is

# Q50

What is the minimum number of 2-input NOR gates required to implement a 4-variable function expressed in Sum-of-minterms as f = Z(0,2,5,7,8,10,13,15)2? Assume that all the inputs and their complements are available.

Answer:

# Q51

A relational database contains two tables Student and Performance as shown below:

|Student|Performance|
|---|---|
|Roll no_|Student name|
|Amit| |
|Rohan| |
|Vinit|3|
| |95|
| |90|
| |89|
|Smita|2|
| |92|
| |80|

The primary key of the Student table is Roll_no. For the Performance table, the columns Roll_no and Subject_code together form the primary key. Consider the SQL query given below:

SELECT S.Student_name
FROM Student S, Performance P
WHERE P.Marks = SUM(P.Marks)
GROUP BY S.Student_name;

The number of rows returned by the above SQL query is

# Q52

Consider the following C program:

#include &lt;stdio.h&gt;
int main() {
float sum = 0.0;
while (i/j > 0) {
printf("%f\n", sum);
sum += i/j;
}
return 0;
}

The number of times the variable sum will be printed when the above program is executed is
---
# GATE 2019

# Computer Science and Information Technology Set-2

# Q53

Consider the following program:

#include &lt;stdio.h&gt;
int main( )
{
int sum {2, 4, 6, 8, 10};
int a[ ];
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++)
printf("%d\n", sum[i]);
return 0;
}

The output of the above program is

# Q54

In an RSA cryptosystem, the value of the Euler's Totient Function, then the prime factor of n which is greater than 50 is 2880, where Q0 denote public modulus parameter n is 3007.

# Q55

Consider the following relations P(X,Y), Q(X,Y,T) and R(Y,V):

|R|1|2|3|V|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Z|4|3|V2|V3|

How many tuples will be returned by the following relational algebra query?

O(PY=RY ARV=V2) (P X) - [(ocqY=RY_ ^ QT>2) (Q x R)]

Answer: 13/15
---
|QNo|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|2|MCQ|GA|C| |
|2|MCQ|GA|A| |
|3|MCQ|GA|B|1|
|4|MCQ|GA| |1|
|5|MCQ|GA| | |
|6|MCQ|GA|B|2|
| |MCQ|GA|C|2|
|8|MCQ|GA|B|2|
|9|MCQ|GA|C|2|
|10|MCQ|GA|D|2|
| |MCQ|CS| | |
|2|MCQ|CS|A|1|
|3|MCQ|CS|D|1|
|4|MCQ|CS| |1|
|5|MCQ|CS|c|1|
|6|MCQ|CS|B|1|
|7|MCQ|CS|B|1|
|8|MCQ|CS| | |
|9|MCQ|CS| |1|
|10|MCQ|CS|B|1|
|11|MCQ|CS|C|1|
|12|MCQ|CS|C OR D|1|
|13|MCQ|CS| |1|
---
|QNo|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|14|MCQ|CS|B| |
|15|MCQ|CS|D| |
|16|MCQ|CS|B|1|
|17|NAT|CS|31t0 31|1|
|18|NAT|CS|26 to 26| |
|19|NAT|CS|31to 31| |
|20|NAT|CS|0.08 to 0.08|1|
|21|NAT|CS|2 to 2|1|
|22|NAT|CS|0.502 to 0.504|1|
|23|NAT|CS|80 to 80|1|
|24|NAT|CS|6 to 6| |
|25|NAT|CS|29to 29|1|
|26|MCQ|CS|D|2|
|27|MCQ|CS|B|2|
|28|MCQ|CS|C|2|
|29|MCQ|CS|C|2|
|30|MCQ|CS|A|2|
|31|MCQ|CS| |2|
|32|MCQ|CS| |2|
|33|MCQ|CS|B|2|
|34|MCQ|CS|B|2|
|35|MCQ|CS| |2|
|36|MCQ|CS| |2|
---
|QNo|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|37|MCQ|CS| |2|
|38|MCQ|CS| |2|
|39|MCQ|CS|A|2|
|40|MCQ|CS| |2|
|41|NAT|CS|2 to 2|2|
|42|NAT|CS|3.7 to 3.8 OR 4.0 to 4.1|2|
|43|NAT|CS|5 to 5|2|
|44|NAT|CS|12 to 12|2|
|45|NAT|CS|160 to 160|2|
|46|NAT|CS|4.25 to 4.25|2|
|47|NAT|CS|0.8 to 0.8|2|
|48|NAT|CS|120 to 120|2|
|49|NAT|CS|3 to 3|2|
|50|NAT|CS|3 to 3|2|
|51|NAT|CS|5 to 5|2|
|52|NAT|CS|5 to 5|2|
|53|NAT|CS|10 to 10|2|
|54|NAT|CS|97 to 97|2|
|55|NAT|CS|1 to 1|2|