# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-9

# Q1-Q.5 carry one mark each:

Q1 Daytime temperatures in Delhi can

- (A) get
- (B) stand
- (C) reach
- (D) peak

Q2 The growth rate of ABC Motors in 2011 was the same

- (A) as of
- (B) as those of
- (C) as that of
- (D) as that of

Q3 Suresh wanted to lay a new carpet in his new mansion with an area of 70 sq. mts. However, an area of 550 sq. mts. had to be left out for flower pots. If the cost of carpet is Rs. 50 per sq. mts., how much money (in Rs.) will be spent by Suresh for the carpet now?

- (A) Rs. 1,65,000
- (B) Rs. 1,92,500
- (C) Rs. 2,75,000
- (D) Rs. 1,27,500

Q4 A retaining wall with measurements 30m x 12m x 6m was constructed with bricks of dimensions 8cm x 6cm x 6cm. If 60% of the wall consists of bricks, the number of bricks

- (A) 30
- (B) 40
- (C) 45
- (D) 75

Q5 Hima Das was the only Indian athlete to win gold for India.

- (A) the
- (B) many
- (C) an
- (D) the

# Q6-Q10 carry two marks each

Q6 Mohan, the manager, wants his four workers to work in pairs. No pair should work for more than 5 hours. Ram and John have worked together for 98 hours. Kri worked together for 5 hours. Krishna does not want to work with Ram. Whom should Mohan allot to work with John if he wants all the workers to continue working?

- (A) Amir
- (B) Krishna
- (C) Ram
- (D) None of the three
---
# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-9

Population of state X increased by 1% an 1y. Let P be the ratio of the population of state X 2001 to 2011. Assumne that x is greater thar increase in P from 2001 to 2011 is tbe population of state Y increased by y% from to state Y in a given year: The percentage

(A) X - y

(B) 100(x-y)

(C) 100(-y)

(D) 100+x

100+y

# Q.8

The Newspaper reports that over 500 Mohinitampuram forest div ectares of tribal land spread across 28 tribal settlements in the top forest. First the tribals are duped ision have already been "alienated" the families official said, thus rendered landless are often forced to encroach fither into the forests duping the tribals.

On the basis of the inforation available in the paragraph; it cannot be inferred who is responsible for

(A) forest officials

(B) landless families

# Q.9

someone started the two pumps together but left the drainage hole open; how many hours will it take for the tank to be filled? (Assume that the rate of drainage is independent of the lead)

(A) 1.50

(B) 2.00

(C) 2.50

(D) 4.00

# Q.10

'Popular Hindi fiction, despite perhaps because of its wide reach, often does not appear in OUT cinema. Hindi film protagonists usually read books of aspirational value: textbooks, English books, or high value literature. Which one of the following CANNOT be inferred from the paragraph above?

(A) Though popular Hindi fiction has wide reach; it often does not appear in the movies

(B) Protagonists in Hindi movies, being ideals for viewers, read only books of aspirational value

(C) Textbooks, English books of high literature have aspirational value, but not popular Hindi fiction

(D) People do not look up to writers of textbooks, English books of high value literature

GA 21/3
---
GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-9
                            END OF THE QU EESTION PAPER
 GA                                                      3/3
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

Q.1-Q. 25 carry one mark each

# Q.1

Euclidean norm (length) of the vector [4 -2 -6]T is

- (A) √(24)
- (B) √(48)
- (C) √(56)
- (D) √(56)

# Q.2

The Laplace transform of sinh(at) is

- (A) s² + a²
- (D) s² + a²

# Q.3

The following inequality is true for all x close to 0.

1 - cos(x) < 2 rsin(x)

What is the value of lim (x → 0) x sin(x) / (10 - cos(x))

- (A) 0
- (B) 1/2
- (C)
- (D) 2

# Q.4

What is curl of the vector field 2x²yi + 522j + 4yz k?

- (A) 6zi + 4xj - z x²k
- (B) 6zi + 8xyj + 2x²yk
- (C) -14zi + 6yj + 2x²k
- (D) -14zi + 2x²k

# Q.5

A closed thin-walled tube has thickness mean enclosed area within the boundary of the centerline of tube's thickness, Am, and ear stress, T. Torsional moment of resistance, T, of the section would be

- (A) 0.5 t Am
- (B) t Am
- (C) Z t Am
- (D) 4 r Am
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q.6

A steel column is restrained against both translation and rotation at one end and is restrained only against rotation but free to translate at the other end. Theoretical and design effective length factor of the column are (IS:800-2007) values, respectively, of

|(A)|1.0 and 1.0|
|---|---|
|(B)|1.2 and 1.0|
|(C)|1.2 and 1.2|
|(D)|1.0 and 1.2|

# Q.7

If the fineness modulus of a sample of aggregates is 4.3, the mean size of the particles in the sample is between

|(A)|150 µm and 300 µm|
|---|---|
|(B)|300 µm and 600 µm|
|(C)|1.18 mm and 2.36 mm|
|(D)|2.36 mm and 4.75 mm|

# Q.8

For a channel section subjected to a downward vertical shear force at its centroid, which one of the following represents the correct distribution of shear stress in flange and web?

# Q.9

Which one of the following options contains ONLY primary air pollutants?

|(A)|Hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides|
|---|---|
|(B)|Hydrocarbons and ozone|
|(C)|Ozone and peroxyacetyl nitrate|
|(D)|Nitrogen oxides and peroxyacetyl nitrate|
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q.10

Analysis of a water sample revealed that the sample contains the following species: CO2, Na+, H+, PO43-, Al+, HCO3-, Cl-, Ca2+, Mg2+, HCO3, Fe2+, OH-. Concentrations of which of the species will be required to compute alkalinity?

- (A) CO2, H+, HCO3, OH-
- (B) CO2, H+, HCO3, HCO3-
- (C) CO2-, HCO3, HCO3, OH
- (D) H+, HCO3, HCO3, OH-

# Q.11

Structural failures considered in the mechanistic method of bituminous pavement design are:

- (A) Fatigue and Rutting
- (B) Fatigue and Shear
- (C) Rutting and Shear
- (D) Shear and Slippage

# Q.12

A solid sphere of radius, r, and made of material with density, Ps, is moving through the atmosphere (constant pressure, p) with a pressure (Fp) acting on the sphere at any time, t, velocity; v. The net force ONLY due to atmospheric:

- (A) πr2p
- (B) 4πr2p
- (C) πr2p dv
- (D) zero

# Q.13

The velocity field in a flow system is given by v = 2i + (x + y)j + (xyz)k. The acceleration of the fluid at (1,1,2) is:

- (A) 2i + 10k
- (B) 4i + 12k
- (C) j + k
- (D) 4j + 10k

# Q.14

An inflow hydrograph is routed through a reservoir to produce an outflow hydrograph. The peak flow of the inflow hydrograph is Pi and the time of occurrence of the peak is ti. The peak flow of the outflow hydrograph is Po and the time of occurrence of the peak is to. Which one of the following statements is correct?

- (A) Pi < Po and ti < to
- (B) Pi < Po and ti > to
- (C) Pi > Po and ti < to
- (D) Pi > Po and ti > to
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q.15

are € and Y respectively. If the factor of safety against cohesion is Fc; the Taylor's stability number (Sn) is

|(A)|YH| |
|---|---|---|
|(B)|YH|cF|
|(C)|FxH| |
|(D)|FxH| |

# Q.16

The notation *SC as per Indian Standard Soil Classification System refers to

|(A)|Sandy clay|
|---|---|
|(B)|Silty clay|
|(C)|Clayey silt|
|(D)|Clayey sand|

# Q.17

An anisotropic soil deposit has coefficients of permeability in vertical and horizontal directions as kz and kx; respectively: For constructing a flow net, the horizontal dimension of the problem's geometry is transformed by a multiplying factor of

|(A)|kz|
|---|---|
|(B)|kx|
|(C)|kz|
|(D)|kx|

# Q.18

The value of the function f(x) is given at n distinct values of x and its value is to be interpolated at the point using all the n points Lagrange polynomial, denoted by IL. Which one of the following statements is correct? Then by the Newton polynomial, denoted by IN:

|(A)|IL is always greater than IN|
|---|---|
|(B)|IL and IN are always equal|
|(C)|IL is always less than IN|
|(D)|No definite relation exists between IL and IN|

# Q.19

The speed-density relationship in a mid-block section of a highway follows the Greenshield model. If the free flow speed is Vf and the jam density is kj, the maximum flow observed on this section is

|(A)|Vfkj|
|---|---|
|(B)| |
|(C)| |
|(D)| |

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

4/16
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q.20

The degree of static indeterminacy of the plane frame as shown in the figure is

Hinge

# Q.21

The standard deviation in the observed compressive strength of concrete required in a project is 25 MPa and the average compressive strength of cubes tested at site is 4 MPa:

The characteristic compressive strength of the same material as is used for the project is tested at different water-cement (w/c) ratios using the given in the table:

|w/c|45|50|55|60|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Average compressive strength of cubes (MPa)|35|25|20|15|

The water-cement ratio (in percent, rounded off to the lower integer) to be used in the mix is

# Q.22

The data from a closed traverse survey QRS (run in the clockwise direction) are given in the table:

|Line|Included angle (in degrees)|
|---|---|
|PQ|88|
|QR|92|
|D|0|
|SP|89|

The closing error for the traverse PQRS (in degrees) is
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage

# Q.23

A vehicle is moving on a road of grade due to gravity as 10 m/s². On applying brakes to reach a speed of 10 m/s, the required braking distance (in m, round off to nearest integer) along the horizontal, is

# Q.24

The command area of a canal grows only 4, is 40 cm. If the canal discharge is 2 m³/s, the area, in hectares, rounded off to the nearest integer; which could be irrigated (neglecting all losses) is

# Q.25

Construction of a new building founded on a clayey soil was completed in January 2010. In January 2014, the average consolidation settlement of the foundation was recorded as 10 mm. The ultimate consolidation settlement was estimated in design as 40 mm. Considering double drainage to occur, the expected consolidation settlement in January 2019 (in m, round off to the nearest integer) will be

# CE (Set No 3) Stage
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q 26 - Q 55 carry two marks each:

# Q.26

The probability density function of a continuous random variable distributed uniformly between x and y (for y > x) is

- (A) x - y
- (B) y - x
- (C) x - y
- (D) y - x

# Q.27

Consider the hemi-spherical tank of radius 13 m as shown in the figure (not drawn to scale)

Hal 1 (HC VOIc U1 Wale (I M UCPU U1 WatC CCMU C U1

13m

61n

- (A) 781
- (B) 1561
- (C) 3961
- (D) 4681

# Q.28

An ordinary differential equation is given below.

(x ln x) = y

The solution for the above equation is (Note: K denotes a constant in the option 1S)

- (A) y = Kx ln x
- (B) y = Kx e^k
- (C) y = Kxe^-x
- (D) y = K ln x

7/16
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q.29

For a plane stress problem; the state of stress at a point P is represented by the stress element as shown in figure.

|20 MPa|25 MPa|
|---|---|
|80 MPa|80 MPa|
|25 MPa|20 MPa|

By how much angle (θ) in degrees the stress element should be rotated in order to get the planes of maximum shear stress?

- 13.3
- 26.6
- 31.7
- 48.3

# Q.30

The critical bending compressive stress in the extreme fibre of a structural steel section is 1000 MPa. It is given that the yield strength of the steel is 250 MPa, and thickness of flange is 15 mm. As per the provisions of IS:800-2007, the non-dimensional slenderness ratio of the steel cross-section is

- (A) 0.25
- (B) 0.50
- (C) 0.75
- (D) 2.00
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage

# Q31

In the context of provisions relating to durability of concrete, consider the following assertions:

- Assertion (1): As per IS 456-2000, air entrainment to the extent of 3% to 6% is required for concrete exposed to marine environment.
- Assertion (2): The equivalent alkali content (in terms of Na2O equivalent) for a cement containing 1% and 0.6% of Na2O and K2O, respectively, is approximately 1.4% (rounded to one decimal place).

Which one of the following statements is CORRECT?

- (A) Assertion (1) is FALSE and Assertion (2) is TRUE
- (B) Assertion (1) is TRUE and Assertion (2) is FALSE
- (C) Both Assertion (1) and Assertion (2) are FALSE
- (D) Both Assertion (1) and Assertion (2) are TRUE

# Q32

Chlorine is used as the disinfectant in a municipal water treatment plant. It achieves 50 percent disinfection efficiency in terms of killing the indicator microorganisms (E-Coli) in 3 minutes. The minimum time required to achieve 99 percent disinfection efficiency would be:

- (A) 9.93 minutes
- (B) 11.93 minutes
- (C) 19.93 minutes
- (D) 21.93 minutes

# Q33

A camera with a focal length of 20 cm is used for taking vertical aerial photographs of a terrain. The average elevation of the terrain is 1200 m above mean sea level (MSL). What is the height above MSL at which an aircraft must fly in order to get the aerial photographs at a scale of 1:8000?

- (A) 2600 m
- (B) 2800 m
- (C) 3000 m
- (D) 3200 m

# Q34

A flexible pavement has the following class of loads during a particular hour of the day:

- 160 trucks with 2-axles (front axle load of 40 kN);
- 80 buses with 2-axles (each axle having rear axle loads of 40 kN and 80 kN, respectively).

The equivalent standard axle load repetitions for this vehicle combination as per RC:37-2012 would be:

- (A) 180
- (B) 240
- (C) 250
- (D) 320
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q35

The inverse of the matrix is

|10|-9|-10| |
|---|---|---|---|
|-15|14|15|-14|
|5|T[|56|55|
|-2|5|5|"5|
|5|5|33|5|
|-1|5|5|5|

# Q36

Together on the beam ABCD shown in the figure (not drawn to scale) a concentrated load of 60 kN and a long uniformly distributed load of 10 kN are moving. The relative positions of the two loads are not fixed. The maximum shear force (in kN, round off to the nearest integer) caused at the internal hinge B is

2 m                         4 m

10/16
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q37

A plane frame shown in the figure (not to scale) has linear elastic springs at node H. The spring constants are kx = ky = 5 x 105 kN/m and ke = 3 x 105 kNm/rad.

For the externally applied moment of 30 kNm at node F, the rotation (in degrees, round off to 3 decimals) observed in the rotational spring at node H is:

# Q38

A rolled I-section beam is supported on a 75 m wide bearing plate as shown in the figure. The radius of the I-section is 10 m. Thicknesses of flange and web of the section are 20 mm and 8 mm, respectively. Material yield stress, fy = 250 MPa and partial safety factor for material, Ymo = 1.10.

As per IS: 800-2007, the web bearing strength (in kN, round off to 2 decimal places) of the beam is:
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage

# Q39

500x10-6 is recorded If this load is allowed to a stress level of 12.5 MPa, a strain of 1000x10-6 is observed. When a specimen of M2S concrete is allowed to stand for a long time, the strain increases to the effective modulus of elasticity considering the long-term effects, in accordance with the provisions of IS:456-2000.

# Q40

Discrete particles are required to be set in water per day. As a part of the treatment process, a water treatment plant treats 6000 L of raw water. The clarifier column test indicates that an overflow rate of 1.5 m per hour would produce the desired removal of particles through settling in the clarifier having a depth of 3.0 m. The volume of the required clarifier (in m3, round off to 1 decimal place) would be:

# Q41

Raw municipal solid waste (MSW) collected from the city contains 70% decomposable material that can be converted to methane. The decomposable material yields the following mass percent:

|C:|6|
|---|---|
|H:|43|
|O:|0.8|
|N:|6.2|

The methane production of the decomposable material is governed by the following stoichiometric relation:

CaH6On + nH2 → mCH4 + 6CO2 + dN2

Given atomic weights: C=12, H=1, O=16, N=14. The mass of methane produced (in grams, round off to 1 decimal place) per ton of raw MSW will be:

# Q42

Consider the reactor shown in the figure. The flow rate through the reactor is Q m/h. The concentrations (in mg/L) of the compound in the influent and effluent are Co and C respectively. The compound is degraded in the reactor following the first order reaction. The mixing condition of the reactor can be varied such that the reactor becomes either a completely mixed flow reactor (CMFR) or a plug-flow reactor (PFR). The length of the reactor can be adjusted in these two mixing conditions. Assuming steady state and for Co = 0.8, the value of LCMFR/LPFR (round off to 2 decimal places) is:
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q.43

A series of perpendicular offsets taken from a curved boundary wall to a straight survey line at an interval of 6 m are 1.22, 1.67, 2.04, 2.34, 2.14, 1.87, and 1.15 m. The area (in m², round off to 2 decimal places) bounded by the last offsets, determined using Simpson's rule, is

# Q.44

The uniform arrival and uniform service rates observed on an intersection are 20 and 50 vehicles/minute respectively. For this signal, the effective green time is 30 s, and the red time is 30 s. Assuming that initially there are no vehicles in the queue, the average delay per vehicle using the approach road during the cycle length (in s, round off to 2 decimal places) is

# Q.45

A broad gauge railway line passes through a horizontal curved section (radius 875 m) of length 200 m. The allowable speed on this portion is 100 km/h. For calculating the cant, consider the gauge as centre-to-centre distance between the rail heads, equal to 1750 mm. The maximum permissible cant (in mm, round off to 1 decimal place) with respect to the centre-to-centre distance between the rail heads is

# Q.46

The speed-density relationship of a highway is given as

u
100
0.5 k
vehicles per hour; round off to the nearest integer. The maximum flow (in vehicles per km) is
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

Q.47 A confined aquifer of 15 m constant thickness is sandwiched between two aquicludes as shown in the figure (not drawn to scale).

Piezometer P

Piezometer Q

55.2 m

Piezometric Surface

34.1 m

Aquifer

Aquiclude

Reference Datum

The heads indicated by two piezometers P and Q are 55.2 m and 34.1 m, respectively. The aquifer has a distance between the piezometers of 2500 m, a hydraulic conductivity of 30 m/day, and its effective porosity is 0.25. If the time taken by the water to travel through the aquifer from piezometer location P to Q (in days, round off to 1 decimal place) is __________.
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q48

At the foot of a spillway; water flows at a depth of 23 cm with a velocity of 8.1 m/s, as shown in the figure.

Hydraulic Spillway Jump

The flow enters as an M-3 profile in the long wide rectangular channel with bed slope 1800 and Manning's n = 0.015. A hydraulic jump is formed at a certain distance from the foot of the spillway. Assume the acceleration due to gravity, g = 9.81 m/s². Just before the hydraulic jump, the depth of flow Y1 (in m, round to 2 decimal places) is

# Q49

Two identical pipes (i.e., having the same length, same diameter, and same roughness) are used to withdraw water from a reservoir. In the first case, they are attached in series and discharge freely into the atmosphere. In the second case, they are attached in parallel and also discharge freely into the atmosphere. Neglecting all minor losses, and assuming that the friction factor is the same in both cases, the ratio of the discharge in the parallel arrangement to that in the series arrangement (round to 2 decimal places) is

# Q50

The ordinates, U, of a 2-hour unit hydrograph (i.e., for cm of effective rain), for a catchment are shown in the table.

|(hour)|2|3| |10|11|12| | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|(m/s)|0|2|8|18|32|45|30|19|12|7|3|1|

A 6-hour storm occurs over the catchment such that the effective rainfall intensity is cm/hour for the first two hours, zero for the next two hours. If the base flow is constant at 5 m/s for the next two hours, and 0.5 cm/hour for the last two hours, the peak flow due to this storm (in m/s, round off to 1 decimal place) will be
---
# GATE 2019

# CE (Set No 3) Stage 2

# Q51

The dimensions of a soil sampler are given in the table:

|Parameter|Cutting edge|Sampling tube|
|---|---|---|
|Inside diameter (mm)|80|86|
|Outside diameter (mm)|100|90|

For this sampler, the outside clearance ratio (in percent; round off to 2 decimal places) is

# Q52

The 2:1 dispersion method of stress distribution by a uniformly distributed load of 120 kPa. As per A2m x 4 m rectangular footing has to caution, the increment in vertical stress (in kPa) at a depth of 2 m below the footing is

# Q53

Of height of the two specimens (Lsr:Ls) forced on two soil specimens, S1 and S2. The ratio of the diameter of specimens (Dsi:Ds2) is 0.5, and the ratio of the constant head (hsi:hs2) applied on the specimens is 2.0. If the discharge from both the specimens (ksiks2) is equal, the ratio of the permeability of the soil specimens is

# Q54

A timber pile of length 8 m and diameter 0.2 m is driven with a 20 kN drop hammer; falling freely from a height of 1.5 m. The total penetration of the pile in the last 5 blows is 40 mm. Assume a factor (allowing reduction in the theoretical set due to energy losses) of 2.5. Use the Engineering News Record expression. The safe load carrying capacity of the pile (in kN, round off to 2 decimal places) is

# Q55

Properties: A square footing of 2 m sides rests on cohesion 24 kPa, the surface of a homogeneous soil bed having the angle of internal friction 25° and unit weight Y = 18 kN/m³. Terzaghi's bearing capacity factors for c = 250 are Nc = 25.1, Nq = 12.7, Ny = 9.7, Nc' = 14.8, Nq' = 5.6, and Ny = 3.2. The ultimate bearing capacity of the foundation (in kPa, round off to 2 decimal places) is

END OF THE QUESTION PAPER

CE (Set No 3) Stage 16/16
---
|QNo|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|2|MCQ|GA| | |
|3|MCQ|GA|A|1|
| |MCQ|GA| | |
|5|MCQ|GA| | |
| |MCQ|GA|B|2|
| |MCQ|GA|D|2|
|8|MCQ|GA|D|2|
|9|MCQ|GA| |2|
|10|MCQ|GA|B OR D|2|
| |MCQ|CE| | |
|2|MCQ|CE|A|1|
|3|MCQ|CE| |1|
| |MCQ|CE| |1|
|5|MCQ|CE| |1|
|6|MCQ|CE|C OR D|1|
| |MCQ|CE| |1|
|8|MCQ|CE| | |
|9|MCQ|CE|A|1|
|10|MCQ|CE|A|1|
|11|MCQ|CE|A|1|
|12|MCQ|CE|D|1|
|13|MCQ|CE| |1|
---
|QNo|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|14|MCQ|CE| | |
|15|MCQ|CE| | |
|16|MCQ|CE| |1|
|17|MCQ|CE| |1|
|18|MCQ|CE|B| |
|19|MCQ|CE| |1|
|20|NAT|CE|15to 15|1|
|21|NAT|CE|46to 46|1|
|22|NAT|CE|3 to 3|1|
|23|NAT|CE|30to 30|1|
|24|NAT|CE|5180 to 5190| |
|25|NAT|CE|15to 15|1|
|26|MCQ|CE|B|2|
|27|MCQ|CE| |2|
|28|MCQ|CE| |2|
|29|MCQ|CE| |2|
|30|MCQ|CE|B|2|
|31|MCQ|CE| |2|
|32|MCQ|CE| |2|
|33|MCQ|CE|B|2|
|34|MCQ|CE|A|2|
|35|MCQ|CE| |2|
|36|NAT|CE|70 to 70 OR-70 to-70|2|
---
|QNo|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|37|NAT|CE|0.005 to 0.007|2|
|38|NAT|CE|272.60 to 272.80|2|
|39|NAT|CE|12500 to 12500|2|
|40|NAT|CE|495.0 to 505.0|2|
|41|NAT|CE|135.0 to 140.0|2|
|42|NAT|CE|1.10 to 1.15|2|
|43|NAT|CE|67.00 to 70.00|2|
|44|NAT|CE|12.00 to 13.00|2|
|45|NAT|CE|157.2 to 157.6|2|
|46|NAT|CE|5000 to 5000|2|
|47|NAT|CE|924.0 to 926.0|2|
|48|NAT|CE|0.41 to 0.43|2|
|49|NAT|CE|2.80 to 2.90|2|
|50|NAT|CE|96.5 to 97.5|2|
|51|NAT|CE|11.10 to 11.12|2|
|52|NAT|CE|40 to 40|2|
|53|NAT|CE|2.95 to 3.05|2|
|54|NAT|CE|151.00 to 152.00|2|
|55|NAT|CE|920.00 to 925.00 OR 350.00 to 356.00|2|