SESSION - 1
---
# GATE 2014: General Instructions during Examination

1. Total duration of the GATE examination is 180 minutes.
2. The clock will be set at the server. The countdown timer at the top right corner of the screen will display the remaining time available for you to complete the examination. When the timer reaches zero, the examination will end by itself. You need not terminate the examination or submit your paper.
3. Any useful data required for your paper can be viewed by clicking on the Useful Common Data button that appears on the screen.
4. Use the scribble pad provided to you for any rough work. Submit the scribble pad at the end of the examination.
5. You are allowed to use a non-programmable type calculator, however, sharing of calculators is not allowed.
6. The Question Palette displayed on the right side of the screen will show the status of each question using one of the following symbols:
- You have not visited the question
- You have not answered the question
- You have answered the question
- You have NOT answered the question; but have marked the question for review
- You have answered the question; but marked it for review

The Marked for Review status for a question simply indicates that you would like to look at that question again. If a question is answered, but marked for review, then the answer will be considered for evaluation unless the status is modified by the candidate.

# Navigating to a Question:

To answer a question, do the following:
1. Click on the question number in the Question Palette to go to that question directly.
2. Select an answer for a multiple choice type question by clicking on the bubble placed before the 4 choices, namely A, B, C and D. Use the virtual numeric keypad to enter a number as answer for a numerical type question.
3. Click on Save & Next to save your answer for the current question and then go to the next question.
4. Click on Mark for Review & Next to save your answer for the current question and also mark it for review, and then go to the next question.
---
Caution: Note that your answer for the current question will not be saved, if you navigate to another question directly by clicking on a question number without saving the answer to the previous question.

You can view all the questions by clicking on the Question Paper button. This feature is provided, so that if you want you can just see the entire question paper at a glance.

# Answering a Question :

# 8. Procedure for answering a multiple choice (MCQ) type question:

1. Choose one answer from the 4 options (A,B,C,D) given below the question, click on the bubble placed before the chosen option.
2. To deselect your chosen answer, click on the bubble of the chosen option again or click on the Clear Response button.
3. To change your chosen answer, click on the bubble of another option.
4. To save your answer, you MUST click on the Save & Next button.

# 9. Procedure for answering a numerical answer type question:

1. To enter a number as your answer, use the virtual numerical keypad.
2. A fraction (e.g. -0.3 or -.3) can be entered as an answer with or without '0' before the decimal point. As many as four decimal points, e.g. 12.5435 or 0.003 or -932.6711 or 12.82 can be entered.
3. To clear your answer, click on the Clear Response button.
4. To save your answer, you MUST click on the Save & Next button.

# 10. To mark a question for review, click on the Mark for Review & Next button. If an answer is selected (for MCQ) or entered (for numerical answer type) for a question that is Marked for Review, that answer will be considered in the evaluation unless the status is modified by the candidate.

# 11. To change your answer to a question that has already been answered, first select that question for answering and then follow the procedure for answering that type of question.

# 12. Note that ONLY Questions for which answers are saved or marked for review after answering will be considered for evaluation.

# Choosing a Section :

# 13. Sections in this question paper are displayed on the top bar of the screen. Questions in a Section can be viewed by clicking on the name of that Section. The Section you are currently viewing will be highlighted.

# 14. A checkbox is displayed for every optional Section, if any, in the Question Paper. To select the optional Section for answering, click on the checkbox for that Section.

# 15. If the checkbox for an optional Section is not selected, the Save & Next button and the Mark for Review & Next button will NOT be enabled for that Section.
---
1. After clicking the Save & Next button for the last question in a Section, you will automatically be taken to the first question of the next Section in sequence.
2. You can move the mouse cursor over the name of a Section to view the answering status for that Section.

# Changing the Optional Section:

After answering the chosen optional Section, partially or completely, you can change the optional Section by selecting the checkbox for a new Section that you want to attempt. A warning message will appear along with a table showing the number of questions answered in each of the previously chosen optional Sections and a checkbox against each of these Sections. Click on a checkbox against a Section that you want to reset and then click on the RESET button. Note that RESETTING a Section will DELETE all the answers for questions in that Section. Hence, if you think that you may want to select this Section again later, you will have to note down your answers for questions in that Section. If you do not want to reset the Section and want to continue answering the previously chosen optional Section, then click on the BACK button.

If you deselect the checkbox for an optional Section in the top bar, the following warning message will appear: "Deselecting the checkbox will DELETE all the answers for questions in this Section. Do you want to deselect this Section?” If you want to deselect, click on the RESET button. If you do not want to deselect, click on the BACK button.

You can shuffle between different Sections or change the optional Sections any number of times.
---
# GATE 2014 Examination

# CE: Civil Engineering

Duration: 180 minutes

Maximum Marks: 100

# Read the following instructions carefully.

1. To login, enter your Registration Number and password provided to you. Kindly go through the various symbols used in the test and understand their meaning before you start the examination.
2. Once you login and after the start of the examination, you can view all the questions in the question paper, by clicking on the View All Questions button in the screen.
3. This question paper consists of 2 sections, General Aptitude (GA) for 15 marks and the subject specific GATE paper for 85 marks. Both these sections are compulsory. The GA section consists of 10 questions. Question numbers 1 to 5 are of 1-mark each, while question numbers 6 to 10 are of 2-mark each. The subject specific GATE paper section consists of 55 questions, out of which question numbers 1 to 25 are of 1-mark each, while question numbers 26 to 55 are of 2-mark each.
4. Depending upon the GATE paper, there may be useful common data that may be required for answering the questions. If the paper has such useful data, the same can be viewed by clicking on the Useful Common Data button that appears at the top, right hand side of the screen.
5. The computer allotted to you at the examination center runs specialized software that permits only one answer to be selected for multiple-choice questions using a mouse and to enter a suitable number for the numerical answer type questions using the virtual keyboard and mouse.
6. Your answers shall be updated and saved on a server periodically and also at the end of the examination. The examination will stop automatically at the end of 180 minutes.
7. In each paper a candidate can answer a total of 65 questions carrying 100 marks.
8. The question paper may consist of questions of multiple choice type (MCQ) and numerical answer type.
9. Multiple choice type questions will have four choices against A, B, C, D, out of which only ONE is the correct answer. The candidate has to choose the correct answer by clicking on the bubble ( ⃝ ) placed before the choice.
10. For numerical answer type questions, each question will have a numerical answer and there will not be any choices. For these questions, the answer should be entered by using the virtual keyboard that appears on the monitor and the mouse.
11. All questions that are not attempted will result in zero marks. However, wrong answers for multiple choice type questions (MCQ) will result in NEGATIVE marks. For all MCQ questions a wrong answer will result in deduction of ⅓ marks for a 1-mark question and ⅔ marks for a 2-mark question.
12. There is NO NEGATIVE MARKING for questions of NUMERICAL ANSWER TYPE.
13. Non-programmable type Calculator is allowed. Charts, graph sheets, and mathematical tables are NOT allowed in the Examination Hall. You must use the Scribble pad provided to you at the examination centre for all your rough work. The Scribble Pad has to be returned at the end of the examination.

# Declaration by the candidate:

“I have read and understood all the above instructions. I have also read and understood clearly the instructions given on the admit card and shall follow the same. I also understand that in case I am found to violate any of these instructions, my candidature is liable to be cancelled. I also confirm that at the start of the examination all the computer hardware allotted to me are in proper working condition.”
---
# GATE 2014 SET- 1

# General Aptitude - GA

# Q. 1 – Q. 5 carry one mark each.

# Q.1

A student is required to demonstrate a high level of comprehension of the subject, especially in the social sciences. The word closest in meaning to comprehension is

- (A) understanding
- (B) meaning
- (C) concentration
- (D) stability

# Q.2

Choose the most appropriate word from the options given below to complete the following sentence. One of his biggest ______ was his ability to forgive.

- (A) vice
- (B) virtues
- (C) choices
- (D) strength

# Q.3

Rajan was not happy that Sajan decided to do the project on his own. On observing his unhappiness, Sajan explained to Rajan that he preferred to work independently. Which one of the statements below is logically valid and can be inferred from the above sentences?

- (A) Rajan has decided to work only in a group.
- (B) Rajan and Sajan were formed into a group against their wishes.
- (C) Sajan had decided to give in to Rajan’s request to work with him.
- (D) Rajan had believed that Sajan and he would be working together.

# Q.4

If y = 5x2 + 3, then the tangent at x = 0, y = 3

- (A) passes through x = 0, y = 0
- (B) has a slope of +1
- (C) is parallel to the x‑axis
- (D) has a slope of −1

# Q.5

A foundry has a fixed daily cost of Rs 50,000 whenever it operates and a variable cost of Rs 800Q, where Q is the daily production in tonnes. What is the cost of production in Rs per tonne for a daily production of 100 tonnes?

# Q. 6 – Q. 10 carry two marks each.

# Q.6

NO_CONTENT_HERE

# Q.7

Find the odd one in the following group: ALRVX, EPVZB, ITZDF, OYEIK

- (A) ALRVX
- (B) EPVZB
- (C) ITZDF
- (D) OYEIK

Anuj, Bhola, Chandan, Dilip, Eswar and Faisal live on different floors in a six‑storeyed building (the ground floor is numbered 1, the floor above it 2, and so on). Anuj lives on an even‑numbered floor. Bhola does not live on an odd numbered floor. Chandan does not live on any of the floors below Faisal’s floor. Dilip does not live on floor number 2. Eswar does not live on a floor immediately above or immediately below Bhola. Faisal lives three floors above Dilip. Which of the following floor‑person combinations is correct?

|Anuj|Bhola|Chandan|Dilip|Eswar|Faisal|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|(A) 6|2|5|1|3|4|
|(B) 2|6|5|1|3|4|
|(C) 4|2|6|3|1|5|
|(D) 2|4|6|1|3|5|
---
# GATE 2014

# SET- 1

# General Aptitude - GA

# Q.8

The smallest angle of a triangle is equal to two thirds of the smallest angle of a quadrilateral. The ratio between the angles of the quadrilateral is 3:4:5:6. The largest angle of the triangle is twice its smallest angle. What is the sum, in degrees, of the second largest angle of the triangle and the largest angle of the quadrilateral?

# Q.9

One percent of the people of country X are taller than 6 ft. Two percent of the people of country Y are taller than 6 ft. There are thrice as many people in country X as in country Y. Taking both countries together, what is the percentage of people taller than 6 ft?

(A) 3.0 (B) 2.5 (C) 1.5 (D) 1.25

# Q.10

The monthly rainfall chart based on 50 years of rainfall in Agra is shown in the following figure. Which of the following are true? (k percentile is the value such that k percent of the data fall below that value)

| |800| | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| |700| | | | | | | | | | | |
| |600| | | | | | | | | | | |
| |500| | | | | | | | | | | |
| |400| | | | | | | | | | | |
| |300| | | | | | | | | | | |
| |200| | | | | | | | | | | |
| |100| | | | | | | | | | | |
| |Jan|Feb|Mar|Apr|May|Jun|Jul|Aug|Sep|Oct|Nov|Dec|

(i) On average, it rains more in July than in December

(ii) Every year, the amount of rainfall in August is more than that in January

(iii) July rainfall can be estimated with better confidence than February rainfall

(iv) In August, there is at least 500 mm of rainfall

(A) (i) and (ii) (B) (i) and (iii) (C) (ii) and (iii) (D) (iii) and (iv)

# GATE 2014

END OF THE QUESTION PAPER
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

Q. 1 – Q. 25 carry one mark each.

# Q.1

Lim
x < x + sin x equals to

- (A) − <
- (B) 0
- (C) 1
- (D) <

# Q.2

Given the matrices J =

|2|1|
|---|---|
|4|2|

and K =

|−1|2|
|---|---|
|2|6|

the product K T JK is ___________

# Q.3

The probability density function of evaporation E on any day during a year in a watershed is given by

f(E) =

|1|5|
|---|---|
|0|0|

0 ≤ E ≤ 5 mm/day

otherwise

The probability that E lies in between 2 and 4 mm/day in a day in the watershed is (in decimal) _____________

# Q.4

The sum of Eigen values of the matrix, [M] is

where [M] =

|215|650|795|
|---|---|---|
|485|655|150|
|835|355|550|

- (A) 915
- (B) 1355
- (C) 1640
- (D) 2180

# Q.5

With reference to the conventional Cartesian (x, y) coordinate system, the vertices of a triangle have the following coordinates: (x1, y1) = (1, 0); (x2, y2) = (2, 2); and (x3, y3) = (4, 3). The area of the triangle is equal to

- (A) 2
- (B) 3
- (C) 4
- (D) 5

CE 1 (GATE 2014) 1/13
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.6

Match the information given in Group – I with those in Group ‑ II.

|Group – I|Group – II|
|---|---|
|P|Factor to decrease ultimate strength to design strength|
|Q|Factor to increase working load to ultimate load for design|
|R|Statical method of ultimate load analysis|
|S|Kinematical mechanism method of ultimate load analysis|

(A) P ‑ 1; Q ‑ 2; R ‑ 3; S ‑ 4

(B) P ‑ 2; Q ‑ 1; R ‑ 4; S ‑ 3

(C) P ‑ 3; Q ‑ 4; R ‑ 2; S ‑ 1

(D) P ‑ 4; Q ‑ 3; R ‑ 2; S ‑ 1

# Q.7

The possible location of shear centre of the channel section, shown below, is

P

Q

R

S

(A) P

(B) Q

(C) R

(D) S

# Q.8

The ultimate collapse load (P) in terms of plastic moment M by kinematic approach for a propped cantilever of length L with P acting at its mid‑span as shown in the figure, would be

P

CE1 (GATE 2014)

X

L

2

L

2

Y

(A) P = 2Mp

(B) P = 4Mp

(C) P = 6Mp

(D) P = 8Mp

# Q.9

While designing, for a steel column of Fe250 grade, a base plate resting on a concrete pedestal of M20 grade, the bearing strength of concrete (in N/mm2) in limit state method of design as per IS:456‑2000 is ______________

CE

2/13
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.10

A steel section is subjected to a combination of shear and bending actions. The applied shear force is V and the shear capacity of the section is Vs. For such a section, high shear force (as per IS:800‑2007) is defined as

- (A) V > 0.6Vs
- (B) V > 0.7Vs
- (C) V > 0.8Vs
- (D) V > 0.9Vs

# Q.11

The degree of static indeterminacy of a rigid jointed frame PQR supported as shown in the figure is

- (A) zero
- (B) one
- (C) two
- (D) unstable

# Q.12

In a beam of length L, four possible influence line diagrams for shear force at a section located at a distance of L/4 from the left end support (marked as P, Q, R and S) are shown below. The correct influence line diagram is

- (A) P
- (B) Q
- (C) R
- (D) S

# Q.13

The degree of disturbance of the sample collected by the sampler is expressed by a term called the "area ratio". If the outer diameter and inner diameter of the sampler are Do and Di respectively, the area ratio is given by

- (A) Do2 - Di2 / Di2
- (B) Di2 - Do2 / Di2
- (C) Do - Di2 / Do2
- (D) Di - Do2 / Do2

CE 3/13
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.14

For a saturated cohesive soil, a triaxial test yields the angle of internal friction (φ) as zero. The conducted test is

- (A) Consolidated Drained (CD) test
- (B) Consolidated Undrained (CU) test
- (C) Unconfined Compression (UC) test
- (D) Unconsolidated Undrained (UU) test

# Q.15

The action of negative skin friction on the pile is to

- (A) increase the ultimate load on the pile
- (B) reduce the allowable load on the pile
- (C) maintain the working load on the pile
- (D) reduce the settlement of the pile

# Q.16

A long slope is formed in a soil with shear strength parameters: c' = 0 and φ' = 34°. A firm stratum lies below the slope and it is assumed that the water table may occasionally rise to the surface, with seepage taking place parallel to the slope. Use γsat = 18 kN/m3 and γw = 10 kN/m3. The maximum slope angle (in degrees) to ensure a factor of safety of 1.5, assuming a potential failure surface parallel to the slope, would be

- (A) 45.3
- (B) 44.7
- (C) 12.3
- (D) 11.3

# Q.17

An incompressible homogeneous fluid is flowing steadily in a variable diameter pipe having the large and small diameters as 15 cm and 5 cm, respectively. If the velocity at a section at the 15 cm diameter portion of the pipe is 2.5 m/s, the velocity of the fluid (in m/s) at a section falling in 5 cm portion of the pipe is __________

# Q.18

A conventional flow duration curve is a plot between

- (A) Flow and percentage time flow is exceeded
- (B) Duration of flooding and ground level elevation
- (C) Duration of water supply in a city and proportion of area receiving supply exceeding this duration
- (D) Flow rate and duration of time taken to empty a reservoir at that flow rate

# Q.19

In reservoirs with an uncontrolled spillway, the peak of the plotted outflow hydrograph

- (A) lies outside the plotted inflow hydrograph
- (B) lies on the recession limb of the plotted inflow hydrograph
- (C) lies on the peak of the inflow hydrograph
- (D) is higher than the peak of the plotted inflow hydrograph
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.20

The dimension for kinematic viscosity is

- (A) MT
- (B) T2L
- (C) L2
- (D) ML

# Q.21

Some of the nontoxic metals normally found in natural water are

- (A) arsenic, lead and mercury
- (B) calcium, sodium and silver
- (C) cadmium, chromium and copper
- (D) iron, manganese and magnesium

# Q.22

The amount of CO2 generated (in kg) while completely oxidizing one kg of CH4 to the end products is ____________

# Q.23

The minimum value of 15 minute peak hour factor on a section of a road is

- (A) 0.10
- (B) 0.20
- (C) 0.25
- (D) 0.33

# Q.24

The following statements are related to temperature stresses developed in concrete pavement slabs with free edges (without any restraint):

- P. The temperature stresses will be zero during both day and night times if the pavement slab is considered weightless
- Q. The temperature stresses will be compressive at the bottom of the slab during night time if the self‑weight of the pavement slab is considered
- R. The temperature stresses will be compressive at the bottom of the slab during day time if the self‑weight of the pavement slab is considered

The TRUE statement(s) is(are)

- (A) P only
- (B) Q only
- (C) P and Q only
- (D) P and R only

# Q.25

The Reduced Levels (RLs) of the points P and Q are +49.600 m and +51.870 m respectively. Distance PQ is 20 m. The distance (in m from P) at which the +51.000 m contour cuts the line PQ is

- (A) 15.00
- (B) 12.33
- (C) 3.52
- (D) 2.27
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q. 26 – Q. 55 carry two marks each.

# Q.26

If the following equation establishes equilibrium in slightly bent position, the mid-span deflection of a member shown in the figure is

y = 0

2y + EI

P

y

P

M

L

N

If a is amplitude constant for y, then

- (A)  y = P  1  1−acos2π Lx
- (B)  y = P  1  1−asin2π Lx
- (C)  y = asinnπ Lx
- (D)  y = acosnπ Lx

# Q.27

A box of weight 100 kN shown in the figure is to be lifted without swinging. If all forces are coplanar, the magnitude and direction (θ) of the force (F) with respect to x-axis should be

y

40 kN

90 kN

45°

F

30°

θ

x

100 kN

- (A) F = 56.389 kN and θ = 28.28°
- (B) F = −56.389 kN and θ = −28.28°
- (C) F = 9.055 kN and θ = 1.414°
- (D) F = −9.055 kN and θ = −1.414°

# Q.28

A particle moves along a curve whose parametric equations are:

x = t3 + 2,  y = −3 e−2t and z = 2sin(5), where x, y and z show variations of the distance covered by the particle (in cm) with time t (in s). The magnitude of the acceleration of the particle (in cm/s2) at t = 0 is ________

# Q.29

A traffic officer imposes on an average 5 number of penalties daily on traffic violators. Assume that the number of penalties on different days is independent and follows a Poisson distribution. The probability that there will be less than 4 penalties in a day is ___________

CE

6/13
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.30

Mathematical idealization of a crane has three bars with their vertices arranged as shown in the figure with a load of 80 kN hanging vertically. The coordinates of the vertices are given in parentheses. The force in the member QR, FQR will be

- (A) 30 kN Compressive
- (B) 30 kN Tensile
- (C) 50 kN Compressive
- (D) 50 kN Tensile

# Q.31

For the cantilever beam of span 3 m (shown below), a concentrated load of 20 kN applied at the free end causes a vertical displacement of 2 mm at a section located at a distance of 1 m from the fixed end. If a concentrated vertically downward load of 10 kN is applied at the section located at a distance of 1 m from the fixed end (with no other load on the beam), the maximum vertical displacement in the same beam (in mm) is __________

# Q.32

For the truss shown below, the member PQ is short by 3 mm. The magnitude of vertical displacement of joint R (in mm) is _______________
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.33

A rectangular beam of width (b) 230 mm and effective depth (d) 450 mm is reinforced with four bars of 12 mm diameter. The grade of concrete is M20 and grade of steel is Fe500. Given that for M20 grade of concrete the ultimate shear strength, τuc = 0.36 N/mm2 for steel percentage, p = 0.25, and τuc = 0.48 N/mm2 for p = 0.50. For a factored shear force of 45 kN, the diameter (in mm) of Fe500 steel two legged stirrups to be used at spacing of 375 mm, should be

- (A) 8
- (B) 10
- (C) 12
- (D) 16

# Q.34

The tension and shear force (both in kN) in each bolt of the joint, as shown below, respectively are

P = 250 kN

- (A) 30.33 and 20.00
- (B) 30.33 and 25.00
- (C) 33.33 and 20.00
- (D) 33.33 and 25.00

# Q.35

For a beam of cross-section, width = 230 mm and effective depth = 500 mm, the number of rebars of 12 mm diameter required to satisfy minimum tension reinforcement requirement specified by IS:456‑2000 (assuming grade of steel reinforcement as Fe500) is _____________

# Q.36

In a reinforced concrete section, the stress at the extreme fibre in compression is 5.80 MPa. The depth of neutral axis in the section is 58 mm and the grade of concrete is M25. Assuming linear elastic behavior of the concrete, the effective curvature of the section (in per mm) is

- (A) 2.0×10−6
- (B) 3.0×10−6
- (C) 4.0×10−6
- (D) 5.0×10−6

CE1 (GATE 2014)
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.37

Group I contains representative load-settlement curves for different modes of bearing capacity failures of sandy soil. Group II enlists the various failure characteristics. Match the load-settlement curves with the corresponding failure characteristics.

|Load|Settlement|
|---|---|
|Group I|Group II|
|P. Curve J|1. No apparent heaving of soil around the footing|
|Q. Curve K|2. Rankine’s passive zone develops imperfectly|
|R. Curve L|3. Well defined slip surface extends to ground surface|

(A) P ‑ 1, Q ‑ 3, R ‑ 2

(B) P ‑ 3, Q ‑ 2, R ‑ 1

(C) P ‑ 3, Q ‑ 1, R ‑ 2

(D) P ‑ 1, Q ‑ 2, R ‑ 3

# Q.38

A given cohesionless soil has emax = 0.85 and emin = 0.50. In the field, the soil is compacted to a mass density of 1800 kg/m3 at a water content of 8%. Take the mass density of water as 1000 kg/m3 and G as 2.7. The relative density (in %) of the soil is

(A) 56.43

(B) 60.25

(C) 62.87

(D) 65.71

# Q.39

The following data are given for the laboratory sample.

σo' = 175 kPa ; eo = 1.1 ; σo' + Δσo' = 300 kPa ; e = 0.9

If thickness of the clay specimen is 25 mm, the value of coefficient of volume compressibility is ___________ ×10−4 m/kN
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.40

The flow net constructed for the dam is shown in the figure below. Taking the coefficient of permeability as 3.8 × 10−6 m/s, the quantity of flow (in cm3/s) under the dam per meter of dam is ______________

50 m

6.3 m

1.6 m

9.4 m

17.2 m

Impermeable stratum

# Q.41

A horizontal jet of water with its cross‑sectional area of 0.0028 m2 hits a fixed vertical plate with a velocity of 5 m/s. After impact the jet splits symmetrically in a plane parallel to the plane of the plate. The force of impact (in N) of the jet on the plate is

- (A) 90
- (B) 80
- (C) 70
- (D) 60

# Q.42

A venturimeter, having a diameter of 7.5 cm at the throat and 15 cm at the enlarged end, is installed in a horizontal pipeline of 15 cm diameter. The pipe carries an incompressible fluid at a steady rate of 30 litres per second. The difference of pressure head measured in terms of the moving fluid in between the enlarged and the throat of the venturimeter is observed to be 2.45 m. Taking the acceleration due to gravity as 9.81 m/s2, the coefficient of discharge of the venturimeter (correct up to two places of decimal) is ______________

# Q.43

A rectangular channel having a bed slope of 0.0001, width 3.0 m and Manning’s coefficient ‘n’ 0.015, carries a discharge of 1.0 m3/s. Given that the normal depth of flow ranges between 0.76 m and 0.8 m. The minimum width of a throat (in m) that is possible at a given section, while ensuring that the prevailing normal depth is not exceeded along the reach upstream of the contraction approximately equal to (assume negligible losses)

- (A) 0.64
- (B) 0.84
- (C) 1.04
- (D) 1.24

CE1 (GATE 2014)
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.44

Three rigid buckets, shown as in the figures (1), (2) and (3), are of identical heights and base areas. Further, assume that each of these buckets have negligible mass and are full of water. The weights of water in these buckets are denoted as W1, W2, and W3 respectively. Also, let the force of water on the base of the bucket be denoted as F1, F2, and F3 respectively. The option giving an accurate description of the system physics is

ALL THREE BUCKETS HAVE THE SAME BASE AREA

(1) (2) (3)

- (A) W2 = W1 = W3 and F2 > F1 > F3
- (B) W2 > W1 > W3 and F2 > F1 > F3
- (C) W2 = W1 = W3 and F1 = F2 = F3
- (D) W2 > W1 > W3 and F1 = F2 = F3

# Q.45

An incompressible fluid is flowing at a steady rate in a horizontal pipe. From a section, the pipe divides into two horizontal parallel pipes of diameters d1 and d2 (where d1 = 4d2) that run for a distance of L each and then again join back to a pipe of the original size. For both the parallel pipes, assume the head loss due to friction only and the Darcy-Weisbach friction factor to be the same. The velocity ratio between the bigger and the smaller branched pipes is _________

# Q.46

16 MLD of water is flowing through a 2.5 km long pipe of diameter 45 cm. The chlorine at the rate of 32 kg/d is applied at the entry of this pipe so that disinfected water is obtained at the exit. There is a proposal to increase the flow through this pipe to 22 MLD from 16 MLD. Assume the dilution coefficient, n = 1. The minimum amount of chlorine (in kg per day) to be applied to achieve the same degree of disinfection for the enhanced flow is

- (A) 60.50
- (B) 44.00
- (C) 38.00
- (D) 23.27

# Q.47

The potable water is prepared from turbid surface water by adopting the following treatment sequence.

- (A) Turbid surface water → Coagulation → Flocculation → Sedimentation → Filtration → Disinfection → Storage & Supply
- (B) Turbid surface water → Disinfection → Flocculation → Sedimentation → Filtration → Coagulation → Storage & Supply
- (C) Turbid surface water → Filtration → Sedimentation → Disinfection → Flocculation → Coagulation → Storage & Supply
- (D) Turbid surface water → Sedimentation → Flocculation → Coagulation → Disinfection → Filtration → Storage & Supply
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.48

For a sample of water with the ionic composition shown in the figure below, the carbonate and non‑carbonate hardness concentrations (in mg/l as CaCO3), respectively are:

|meq/l|0|4|5|7|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Ca2+| | | | |
|Mg2+| | | | |
|Na+| | | | |
|HCO3–| | | | |
|SO42–|meq/l|0|3.5|7|

- (A) 200 and 50
- (B) 175 and 75
- (C) 75 and 175
- (D) 50 and 200

# Q.49

A straight 100 m long raw water gravity main is to carry water from an intake structure to the jack well of a water treatment plant. The required flow through this water main is 0.21 m3/s. Allowable velocity through the main is 0.75 m/s. Assume f = 0.01, g = 9.81 m/s2. The minimum gradient (in cm/100 m length) to be given to this gravity main so that the required amount of water flows without any difficulty is ___________

# Q.50

A traffic survey conducted on a road yields an average daily traffic count of 5000 vehicles. The axle load distribution on the same road is given in the following table:

|Axle load (tonnes)|Frequency of traffic (%)|
|---|---|
|18|10|
|14|20|
|10|35|
|8|15|
|6|20|

The design period of the road is 15 years, the yearly traffic growth rate is 7.5% and the load safety factor (LSF) is 1.3. If the vehicle damage factor (VDF) is calculated from the above data, the design traffic (in million standard axle load, MSA) is ____________

# Q.51

The perception-reaction time for a vehicle travelling at 90 km/h, given the coefficient of longitudinal friction of 0.35 and the stopping sight distance of 170 m (assume g = 9.81 m/s2), is _____________ seconds.

# Q.52

The speed-density (u−k) relationship on a single lane road with unidirectional flow is u = 70 − 0.7k, where u is in km/hr and k is in veh/km. The capacity of the road (in veh/hr) is ___________
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑1

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.53

An isolated three ‑phase traffic signal is designed by Webster's method. The critical flow ratios for three phases are 0.20, 0.30, and 0.25 respectively, and lost time per phase is 4 seconds. The optimum cycle length (in seconds) is ___________

# Q.54

A levelling is carried out to establish the Reduced Levels (RL) of point R with respect to the Bench Mark (BM) at P. The staff readings taken are given below.

|Staff Station|BS|IS|FS|RL|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|P|1.655 m| | |100.000 m|
|Q|‑0.950 m|‑1.500 m| | |
|R| |0.750 m| |?|

If RL of P is +100.000 m, then RL (in m) of R is

- (A) 103.355
- (B) 103.155
- (C) 101.455
- (D) 100.355

# Q.55

Group I lists tool/instrument while Group II lists the method of surveying. Match the tool/instrument with the corresponding method of surveying.

|Group I|Group II|
|---|---|
|P. Alidade|1. Chain surveying|
|Q. Arrow|2. Levelling|
|R. Bubble tube|3. Plain table surveying|
|S. Stadia hair|4. Theodolite surveying|

(A) P – 3; Q – 2; R – 1; S – 4

(B) P – 2; Q – 4; R – 3; S – 1

(C) P – 1; Q – 2; R – 4; S – 3

(D) P – 3; Q – 1; R – 2; S – 4

CE1 (GATE 2014) END OF THE QUESTION PAPER
---
# GATE 2014

# Answer Keys for CE ‐ Civil Engineering

|Section|Q. No.|SESSION ‐ 1|Key / Range|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|GA|1| |A|1|
|GA|2| |B|1|
|GA|3| |D|1|
|GA|4| |C|1|
|GA|5|1300 to 1300| |1|
|GA|6| |D|2|
|GA|7| |B|2|
|GA|8|180 to 180| |2|
|GA|9| |D|2|
|GA|10| |B|2|
|CE|1| |C|1|
|CE|2|23 to 23| |1|
|CE|3|0.4 to 0.4| |1|
|CE|4| |A|1|
|CE|5| |A|1|
|CE|6| |C|1|
|CE|7| |A|1|
|CE|8| |C|1|
|CE|9|9 to 9| |1|
|CE|10| |A|1|
|CE|11| |A|1|
|CE|12| |A|1|
|CE|13| |A|1|
|CE|14| |D|1|
|CE|15| |B|1|
|CE|16| |D|1|
|CE|17|22 to 23| |1|
|CE|18| |A|1|
|CE|19| |B|1|
|CE|20| |C|1|
|CE|21| |D|1|
|CE|22|2.7 to 2.8| |1|
|CE|23| |C|1|
|CE|24| |C|1|
|CE|25| |B|1|
|CE|26|12 to 12| |2|
|CE|27| |A|2|
|CE|28|0.26 to 0.27| |2|
|CE|29| |A|2|
|CE|30|1 to 1| |2|
|CE|31|1.0 to 2.5| |2|
|CE|32| |A|2|
|CE|33| |D|2|
|CE|34|2 to 2| |2|
|CE|35| |C|2|
|CE|36|7.6 to 8.0| |2|
|CE|37|7.10 to 7.85| |2|
|CE|38| |C|2|
|CE|39|0.93 to 0.96| |2|
|CE|40| |B|2|
|CE|41| |D|2|
|CE|42|2 to 2| |2|
|CE|43| |A|2|
|CE|44| |A|2|
|CE|45| |D|2|
|CE|46|4.7 to 4.9| |2|
|CE|47|307 to 310| |2|
|CE|48|3.1 to 3.2| |2|
|CE|49|1750 to 1750| |2|
|CE|50|90 to 95| |2|
|CE|51| |C|2|
|CE|52| |D|2|
|CE|53| |B|2|
|CE|54| |A|2|
|CE|55| |A|2|
---
SESSION - 2
---
# GATE 2014: General Instructions during Examination

1. Total duration of the GATE examination is 180 minutes.
2. The clock will be set at the server. The countdown timer at the top right corner of screen will display the remaining time available for you to complete the examination. When the timer reaches zero, the examination will end by itself. You need not terminate the examination or submit your paper.
3. Any useful data required for your paper can be viewed by clicking on the Useful Common Data button that appears on the screen.
4. Use the scribble pad provided to you for any rough work. Submit the scribble pad at the end of the examination.
5. You are allowed to use a non-programmable type calculator, however, sharing of calculators is not allowed.
6. The Question Palette displayed on the right side of screen will show the status of each question using one of the following symbols:
- You have not visited the question
- You have not answered the question
- You have answered the question
- You have NOT answered the question; but have marked the question for review
- You have answered the question; but marked it for review

The Marked for Review status for a question simply indicates that you would like to look at that question again. If a question is answered, but marked for review, then the answer will be considered for evaluation unless the status is modified by the candidate.

# Navigating to a Question:

To answer a question, do the following:
1. Click on the question number in the Question Palette to go to that question directly.
2. Select an answer for a multiple choice type question by clicking on the bubble placed before the 4 choices, namely A, B, C and D. Use the virtual numeric keypad to enter a number as answer for a numerical type question.
3. Click on Save & Next to save your answer for the current question and then go to the next question.
4. Click on Mark for Review & Next to save your answer for the current question and also mark it for review, and then go to the next question.
---
Caution: Note that your answer for the current question will not be saved, if you navigate to another question directly by clicking on a question number without saving the answer to the previous question.

You can view all the questions by clicking on the Question Paper button. This feature is provided, so that if you want you can just see the entire question paper at a glance.

# Answering a Question :

# 8. Procedure for answering a multiple choice (MCQ) type question:

1. Choose one answer from the 4 options (A,B,C,D) given below the question, click on the bubble placed before the chosen option.
2. To deselect your chosen answer, click on the bubble of the chosen option again or click on the Clear Response button.
3. To change your chosen answer, click on the bubble of another option.
4. To save your answer, you MUST click on the Save & Next button.

# 9. Procedure for answering a numerical answer type question:

1. To enter a number as your answer, use the virtual numerical keypad.
2. A fraction (e.g. -0.3 or -.3) can be entered as an answer with or without '0' before the decimal point. As many as four decimal points, e.g. 12.5435 or 0.003 or -932.6711 or 12.82 can be entered.
3. To clear your answer, click on the Clear Response button.
4. To save your answer, you MUST click on the Save & Next button.

# 10. To mark a question for review:

Click on the Mark for Review & Next button. If an answer is selected (for MCQ) or entered (for numerical answer type) for a question that is Marked for Review, that answer will be considered in the evaluation unless the status is modified by the candidate.

# 11. To change your answer to a question that has already been answered:

First select that question for answering and then follow the procedure for answering that type of question.

# 12. Note that ONLY Questions for which answers are saved or marked for review after answering will be considered for evaluation.

# Choosing a Section :

# 13. Sections in this question paper:

Sections in this question paper are displayed on the top bar of the screen. Questions in a Section can be viewed by clicking on the name of that Section. The Section you are currently viewing will be highlighted.

# 14. A checkbox is displayed for every optional Section:

If any, in the Question Paper. To select the optional Section for answering, click on the checkbox for that Section.

# 15. If the checkbox for an optional Section is not selected:

The Save & Next button and the Mark for Review & Next button will NOT be enabled for that Section.
---
1. After clicking the Save & Next button for the last question in a Section, you will automatically be taken to the first question of the next Section in sequence.
2. You can move the mouse cursor over the name of a Section to view the answering status for that Section.

# Changing the Optional Section:

After answering the chosen optional Section, partially or completely, you can change the optional Section by selecting the checkbox for a new Section that you want to attempt. A warning message will appear along with a table showing the number of questions answered in each of the previously chosen optional Sections and a checkbox against each of these Sections. Click on a checkbox against a Section that you want to reset and then click on the RESET button. Note that RESETTING a Section will DELETE all the answers for questions in that Section. Hence, if you think that you may want to select this Section again later, you will have to note down your answers for questions in that Section. If you do not want to reset the Section and want to continue answering the previously chosen optional Section, then click on the BACK button.

If you deselect the checkbox for an optional Section in the top bar, the following warning message will appear: "Deselecting the checkbox will DELETE all the answers for questions in this Section. Do you want to deselect this Section?” If you want to deselect, click on the RESET button. If you do not want to deselect, click on the BACK button.

You can shuffle between different Sections or change the optional Sections any number of times.
---
# GATE 2014 Examination

# CE: Civil Engineering

Duration: 180 minutes

Maximum Marks: 100

# Read the following instructions carefully.

1. To login, enter your Registration Number and password provided to you. Kindly go through the various symbols used in the test and understand their meaning before you start the examination.
2. Once you login and after the start of the examination, you can view all the questions in the question paper, by clicking on the View All Questions button in the screen.
3. This question paper consists of 2 sections, General Aptitude (GA) for 15 marks and the subject specific GATE paper for 85 marks. Both these sections are compulsory. The GA section consists of 10 questions. Question numbers 1 to 5 are of 1-mark each, while question numbers 6 to 10 are of 2-mark each. The subject specific GATE paper section consists of 55 questions, out of which question numbers 1 to 25 are of 1-mark each, while question numbers 26 to 55 are of 2-mark each.
4. Depending upon the GATE paper, there may be useful common data that may be required for answering the questions. If the paper has such useful data, the same can be viewed by clicking on the Useful Common Data button that appears at the top, right hand side of the screen.
5. The computer allotted to you at the examination center runs specialized software that permits only one answer to be selected for multiple-choice questions using a mouse and to enter a suitable number for the numerical answer type questions using the virtual keyboard and mouse.
6. Your answers shall be updated and saved on a server periodically and also at the end of the examination. The examination will stop automatically at the end of 180 minutes.
7. In each paper a candidate can answer a total of 65 questions carrying 100 marks.
8. The question paper may consist of questions of multiple choice type (MCQ) and numerical answer type.
9. Multiple choice type questions will have four choices against A, B, C, D, out of which only ONE is the correct answer. The candidate has to choose the correct answer by clicking on the bubble ( ⃝ ) placed before the choice.
10. For numerical answer type questions, each question will have a numerical answer and there will not be any choices. For these questions, the answer should be entered by using the virtual keyboard that appears on the monitor and the mouse.
11. All questions that are not attempted will result in zero marks. However, wrong answers for multiple choice type questions (MCQ) will result in NEGATIVE marks. For all MCQ questions a wrong answer will result in deduction of ⅓ marks for a 1-mark question and ⅔ marks for a 2-mark question.
12. There is NO NEGATIVE MARKING for questions of NUMERICAL ANSWER TYPE.
13. Non-programmable type Calculator is allowed. Charts, graph sheets, and mathematical tables are NOT allowed in the Examination Hall. You must use the Scribble pad provided to you at the examination centre for all your rough work. The Scribble Pad has to be returned at the end of the examination.

# Declaration by the candidate:

“I have read and understood all the above instructions. I have also read and understood clearly the instructions given on the admit card and shall follow the same. I also understand that in case I am found to violate any of these instructions, my candidature is liable to be cancelled. I also confirm that at the start of the examination all the computer hardware allotted to me are in proper working condition.”
---
# GATE 2014

# SET- 2

# General Aptitude - GA

# Q. 1 – Q. 5 carry one mark each.

# Q.1

Choose the most appropriate word from the options given below to complete the following sentence.

A person suffering from Alzheimer’s disease ____________ short‑term memory loss.

- (A) experienced
- (B) has experienced
- (C) is experiencing
- (D) experiences

# Q.2

Choose the most appropriate word from the options given below to complete the following sentence.

___________ is the key to their happiness; they are satisfied with what they have.

- (A) Contentment
- (B) Ambition
- (C) Perseverance
- (D) Hunger

# Q.3

Which of the following options is the closest in meaning to the sentence below?

“As a woman, I have no country.”

- (A) Women have no country.
- (B) Women are not citizens of any country.
- (C) Women’s solidarity knows no national boundaries.
- (D) Women of all countries have equal legal rights.

# Q.4

In any given year, the probability of an earthquake greater than Magnitude 6 occurring in the Garhwal Himalayas is 0.04. The average time between successive occurrences of such earthquakes is ____ years.

# Q.5

The population of a new city is 5 million and is growing at 20% annually. How many years would it take to double at this growth rate?

- (A) 3‑4 years
- (B) 4‑5 years
- (C) 5‑6 years
- (D) 6‑7 years

# Q. 6 – Q. 10 carry two marks each.

# Q.6

In a group of four children, Som is younger to Riaz. Shiv is elder to Ansu. Ansu is youngest in the group. Which of the following statements is/are required to find the eldest child in the group?

Statements

1. Shiv is younger to Riaz.
2. Shiv is elder to Som.

- (A) Statement 1 by itself determines the eldest child.
- (B) Statement 2 by itself determines the eldest child.
- (C) Statements 1 and 2 are both required to determine the eldest child.
- (D) Statements 1 and 2 are not sufficient to determine the eldest child.

GA 02(GATE 2014)

GA 1/2
---
# GATE 2014 SET-2

# General Aptitude - GA

# Q.7

Moving into a world of big data will require us to change our thinking about the merits of exactitude. To apply the conventional mindset of measurement to the digital, connected world of the twenty-first century is to miss a crucial point. As mentioned earlier, the obsession with exactness is an artifact of the information-deprived analog era. When data was sparse, every data point was critical, and thus great care was taken to avoid letting any point bias the analysis.

From “BIG DATA” Viktor Mayer-Schonberger and Kenneth Cukier

The main point of the paragraph is:

- (A) The twenty-first century is a digital world
- (B) Big data is obsessed with exactness
- (C) Exactitude is not critical in dealing with big data
- (D) Sparse data leads to a bias in the analysis

# Q.8

The total exports and revenues from the exports of a country are given in the two pie charts below. The pie chart for exports shows the quantity of each item as a percentage of the total quantity of exports. The pie chart for the revenues shows the percentage of the total revenue generated through export of each item. The total quantity of exports of all the items is 5 lakh tonnes and the total revenues are 250 crore rupees. What is the ratio of the revenue generated through export of Item 1 per kilogram to the revenue generated through export of Item 4 per kilogram?

|Exports|Exports|Revenues|Revenues|
|---|---|
|Item 6|16%|Item 1|12%|
|Item 5|12%|Item 6|19%|
|Item 2|20%|Item 2|20%|
|Item 3|19%|Item 4|6%|
|Item 4|22%|Item 3|23%|

- (A) 1:2
- (B) 2:1
- (C) 1:4
- (D) 4:1

# Q.9

X is 1 km northeast of Y. Y is 1 km southeast of Z. W is 1 km west of Z. P is 1 km south of W. Q is 1 km east of P. What is the distance between X and Q in km?

- (A) 1
- (B) √2
- (C) √3
- (D) 2

# Q.10

10% of the population in a town is HIV +. A new diagnostic kit for HIV detection is available; this kit correctly identifies HIV+ individuals 95% of the time, and HIV− individuals 89% of the time. A particular patient is tested using this kit and is found to be positive. The probability that the individual is actually positive is _______

END OF THE QUESTION PAPER
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑2

# CIVIL – CE

Q. 1 – Q. 25 carry one mark each.

# Q.1

A fair (unbiased) coin was tossed four times in succession and resulted in the following outcomes:

- (i) Head
- (ii) Head
- (iii) Head
- (iv) Head

The probability of obtaining a 'Tail' when the coin is tossed again is

- (A) 0
- (B) 1
- (C) 5/4
- (D) 1/2

# Q.2

The determinant of matrix

|0|1|2|3|
|---|---|---|---|
|1|0|3|0|
|2|3|0|1|
|3|0|1|2|

is_____________

# Q.3

z = −5+i can be expressed as

- (A) −0.5 − 0.5i
- (B) −0.5 + 0.5i
- (C) 0.5 − 0.5i
- (D) 0.5 + 0.5i

# Q.4

The integrating factor for the differential equation

dP/dt + k2P = k1L0e−kt is

- (A) e−kt
- (B) e−kt
- (C) ekt
- (D) ek2t

# Q.5

If {x} is a continuous, real valued random variable defined over the interval (−∞, +∞) and its occurrence is defined by the density function given as:

𝑓(𝑥) = √2π*b e−1/2b(𝑥−𝑎)2 where 'a' and 'b' are the statistical attributes of the random variable {x}. The value of the integral

∫−∞∞ 2π*b e−1/2b(𝑥−𝑎)2dx is

- (A) 1
- (B) 0.5
- (C) π
- (D) Ñ
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑2

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.6

Group I contains representative stress‑strain curves as shown in the figure, while Group II gives the list of materials. Match the stress‑strain curves with the corresponding materials.

|Stress| | | |Strain|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|J| |K| |L|

|P. Curve J|1. Cement paste|
|---|---|
|Q. Curve K|2. Coarse aggregate|
|R. Curve L|3. Concrete|

(A) P ‑ 1; Q ‑ 3; R ‑ 2

(B) P ‑ 2; Q ‑ 3; R ‑ 1

(C) P ‑ 3; Q ‑ 1; R ‑ 2

(D) P ‑ 3; Q ‑ 2; R ‑ 1

# Q.7

The first moment of area about the axis of bending for a beam cross‑section is

(A) moment of inertia

(B) section modulus

(C) shape factor

(D) polar moment of inertia

# Q.8

Polar moment of inertia (I), in cm4, of a rectangular section having width, b = 2 cm and depth, d = 6 cm is ________________

# Q.9

The target mean strength fcm for concrete mix design obtained from the characteristic strength fck and standard deviation σ, as defined in IS:456‑2000, is

(A) fck + 1.35σ

(B) fck + 1.45σ

(C) fck + 1.55σ

(D) fck + 1.65σ

# Q.10

The flexural tensile strength of M25 grade of concrete, in N/mm2, as per IS:456‑2000 is ____________

# Q.11

The modulus of elasticity, E = 5000 fck where fck is the characteristic compressive strength of concrete, specified in IS:456‑2000 is based on

(A) tangent modulus

(B) initial tangent modulus

(C) secant modulus

(D) chord modulus
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑2

# CIVIL – CE

Q.12 The static indeterminacy of the two‑span continuous beam with an internal hinge, shown below, is ______________

Q.13 As per Indian Standard Soil Classification System (IS: 1498 ‑ 1970), an expression for A-line is

- (A) Ip = 0.73 (wL − 20)
- (B) I p = 0.70 (wL − 20)
- (C) I p = 0.73 (wL − 10)
- (D) I  = 0.70 (wL − 10)

Q.14 The clay mineral primarily governing the swelling behavior of Black Cotton soil is

- (A) Halloysite
- (B) Illite
- (C) Kaolinite
- (D) Montmorillonite

Q.15 The contact pressure for a rigid footing resting on clay at the centre and the edges are respectively

- (A) maximum and zero
- (B) maximum and minimum
- (C) zero and maximum
- (D) minimum and maximum

Q.16 A certain soil has the following properties: G = 2.71, n = 40% and s w = 20%. The degree of saturation of the soil (rounded off to the nearest percent) is __________

Q.17 A plane flow has velocity components u = T1 x, v = −T2 y and w=0 along x, y and z directions respectively, where T 1 (≠ 0) and T 2 (≠ 0) are constants having the dimension of time. The given flow is incompressible if

- (A) T 1 =−T2
- (B) T 1=−T2 2
- (C) T 1=T2 2
- (D) T 1 =T2

Q.18 Group I lists a few devices while Group II provides information about their uses. Match the devices with their corresponding use.

|Group I|Group II|
|---|---|
|P. Anemometer|1. Capillary potential of soil water|
|Q. Hygrometer|2. Fluid velocity at a specific point in the flow stream|
|R. Pitot Tube|3. Water vapour content of air|
|S. Tensiometer|4. Wind speed|

- (A) P ‑ 1; Q ‑2; R ‑ 3; S ‑ 4
- (B) P ‑ 2; Q ‑ 1; R ‑ 4; S‑ 3
- (C) P ‑ 4; Q ‑ 2; R ‑ 1; S ‑ 3
- (D) P ‑ 4; Q ‑ 3; R ‑ 2; S ‑ 1
---
# GATE 2014 SET‑2 CIVIL – CE

# Q.19

An isolated 3 ‑h rainfall event on a small catchment produces a hydrograph peak and point of inflection on the falling limb of the hydrograph at 7 hours and 8.5 hours respectively, after the start of the rainfall. Assuming, no losses and no base flow contribution, the time of concentration (in hours) for this catchment is approximately

- (A) 8.5
- (B) 7.0
- (C) 6.5
- (D) 5.5

# Q.20

The Muskingum model of routing a flood through a stream reach is expressed as O = 2 K0I2 + K1I1 + K2O, where K0, K1 and K2 are the routing coefficients for the concerned reach, I1 and I2 are the inflows to the reach, and O1 and O2 are the outflows from the reach corresponding to time steps 1 and 2 respectively. The sum of K0, K1 and K2 of the model is

- (A) −1
- (B) −0.5
- (C) 0.5
- (D) 1

# Q.21

The dominating microorganisms in an activated sludge process reactor are

- (A) aerobic heterotrophs
- (B) anaerobic heterotrophs
- (C) autotrophs
- (D) phototrophs

# Q.22

The two air pollution control devices that are usually used to remove very fine particles from the flue gas are

- (A) Cyclone and Venturi Scrubber
- (B) Cyclone and Packed Scrubber
- (C) Electrostatic Precipitator and Fabric Filter
- (D) Settling Chamber and Tray Scrubber

# Q.23

The average spacing between vehicles in a traffic stream is 50 m, then the density (in veh/km) of the stream is ________________

# Q.24

A road is being designed for a speed of 110 km/hr on a horizontal curve with a super elevation of 8%. If the coefficient of side friction is 0.10, the minimum radius of the curve (in m) required for safe vehicular movement is

- (A) 115.0
- (B) 152.3
- (C) 264.3
- (D) 528.5

# Q.25

The survey carried out to delineate natural features, such as hills, rivers, forests and man-made features, such as towns, villages, buildings, roads, transmission lines and canals is classified as

- (A) engineering survey
- (B) geological survey
- (C) land survey
- (D) topographic survey
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑2

# CIVIL – CE

Q. 26 – Q. 55 carry two marks each.

# Q.26

The expression limα → 0 (xα − 1) is equal to

- (A) log x
- (B) 0
- (C) x log x
- (D) ∞

# Q.27

An observer counts 240 veh/h at a specific highway location. Assume that the vehicle arrival at the location is Poisson distributed, the probability of having one vehicle arriving over a 30‑second time interval is ____________

# Q.28

The rank of the matrix

|6|0|4|4|
|---|---|---|---|
|14|−2|14|8|
|18|−14|0|−10|

is _______________

# Q.29

Water is flowing at a steady rate through a homogeneous and saturated horizontal soil strip of 10 m length. The strip is being subjected to a constant water head (H) of 5 m at the beginning and 1 m at the end. If the governing equation of flow in the soil strip is d2H/dx2 = 0 (where x is the distance along the soil strip), the value of H (in m) at the middle of the strip is ___________

# Q.30

The values of axial stress (σ) in kN/m2, bending moment (M) in kNm, and shear force (V) in kN acting at point P for the arrangement shown in the figure are respectively

CE02 (GATE 2014)

3 m

- (A) 1000, 75 and 25
- (B) 1250, 150 and 50
- (C) 1500, 225 and 75
- (D) 1750, 300 and 100

CE

5/11
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑2

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.31

The beam of an overall depth 250 mm (shown below) is used in a building subjected to two different thermal environments. The temperature s at the top and bottom surfaces of the beam are 36°C and 72°C respectively. Considering coefficient of thermal expansion (α) as 1.50×10−5 per °C, the vertical deflection of the beam (in mm) at its mid‑span due to temperature gradient is ________

36 °C

250 mm

72 °C

1.5 m

1.5 m

# Q.32

The axial load (in kN) in the member PQ for the arrangement/assembly shown in the figure given below is _______________

P

2 m

160 kN

R

Q

Beam

S

2 m

2 m

# Q.33

Considering the symmetry of a rigid frame as shown below, the magnitude of the bending moment (in kNm) at P (preferably using the moment distribution method) is

CE02 (GATE 2014)

24 kN/m

(A) 170 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (B) 172 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (C) 176 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (D) 178

CE

6/11
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑2

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.34

A prismatic beam (as shown below) has plastic moment capacity of Mp, then the collapse load P of the beam is

|P|P|
|---|
|L|L|
|2|2|
|(A) 2Mp|(B) 4Mp|
|(C) 6Mp|(D) 8Mp|

# Q.35

The tension (in kN) in a 10 m long cable, shown in the figure, neglecting its self‑weight is

|3 m|3 m|3 m|
|---|
|P|y|Q|
|Cable|Cable|Cable|
|R|R|R|
|120 kN|120 kN|120 kN|
|(A) 120|(B) 75|(C) 60|
|(D) 45|(D) 45|(D) 45|

# Q.36

For the state of stresses (in MPa) shown in the figure below, the maximum shear stress (in MPa) is _______________

# Q.37

An infinitely long slope is made up of a c‑φ soil having the properties: cohesion (c) = 20 kPa, and dry unit weight (γ) = 16 kN/m3. The angle of inclination and critical height of the slope are 40° and 5 m, respectively. To maintain the limiting equilibrium, the angle of internal friction of the soil (in degrees) is _________________
---
# GATE 2014 SET‑2 CIVIL – CE

# Q.38

Group I enlists in ‑situ field tests carried out for soil exploration, while Group II provides a list of parameters for sub ‑soil strength characterization. Match the type of tests with the characterization parameters.

|Group I|Group II|
|---|---|
|P. Pressuremeter Test (PMT)|1. Menard’s modulus (Em)|
|Q. Static Cone Penetration Test (SCPT)|2. Number of blows (N)|
|R. Standard Penetration Test (SPT)|3. Skin resistance (fc)|
|S. Vane Shear Test (VST)|4. Undrained cohesion (cu)|

(A) P ‑ 1; Q ‑ 3; R ‑ 2; S ‑ 4

(B) P ‑ 1; Q ‑ 2; R ‑ 3; S ‑ 4

(C) P ‑ 2; Q ‑ 3; R ‑ 4; S ‑ 1

(D) P ‑ 4; Q ‑ 1; R ‑ 2; S ‑ 3

# Q.39

A single vertical friction pile of diameter 500 mm and length 20 m is subjected to a vertical compressive load. The pile is embedded in a homogeneous sandy stratum where: angle of internal friction (φ) = 30 °, dry unit weight (γd) = 20 kN/m3 and angle of wall friction (δ) = 2 φ/3. Considering the coefficient of lateral earth pressure (K) = 2.7 and the bearing capacity factor (Nq) = 25, the ultimate bearing capacity of the pile (in kN) is _______________

# Q.40

A circular raft foundation of 20 m diameter and 1.6 m thick is provided for a tank that applies a bearing pressure of 110 kPa on sandy soil with Young's modulus, Es' = 30 MPa and Poisson's ratio, υ = 0.3. The raft is made of concrete (Ec = 30 GPa and υc = 0.15). Considering the raft as rigid, the elastic settlement (in mm) is

(A) 50.96

(B) 53.36

(C) 63.72

(D) 66.71

# Q.41

A horizontal nozzle of 30 mm diameter discharges a steady jet of water into the atmosphere at a rate of 15 litres per second. The diameter of inlet to the nozzle is 100 mm. The jet impinges normal to a flat stationary plate held close to the nozzle end. Neglecting air friction and considering the density of water as 1000 kg/m3, the force exerted by the jet (in N) on the plate is _________

# Q.42

A venturimeter having a throat diameter of 0.1 m is used to estimate the flow rate of a horizontal pipe having a diameter of 0.2 m. For an observed pressure difference of 2 m of water head and coefficient of discharge equal to unity, assuming that the energy losses are negligible, the flow rate (in m3/s) through the pipe is approximately equal to

(A) 0.500

(B) 0.150

(C) 0.050

(D) 0.015

# Q.43

A rectangular channel of 2.5 m width is carrying a discharge of 4 m3/s. Considering that acceleration due to gravity as 9.81 m/s2, the velocity of flow (in m/s) corresponding to the critical depth (at which the specific energy is minimum) is _______
---
# GATE 2014 SET‑2

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.44

Irrigation water is to be provided to a crop in a field to bring the moisture content of the soil from the existing 18% to the field capacity of the soil at 28%. The effective root zone of the crop is 70 cm. If the densities of the soil and water are 1.3 g/cm3 and 1.0 g/cm3 respectively, the depth of irrigation water (in mm) required for irrigating the crop is ________.

# Q.45

With reference to a standard Cartesian (x, y) plane, the parabolic velocity distribution profile of fully developed laminar flow in x‑direction between two parallel, stationary and identical plates that are separated by distance, h, is given by the expression:

𝑢 = − 8𝜇𝑑𝑑𝑥 ℎ2 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑1 − 4 ℎ 𝑦2

In this equation, the y = 0 axis lies equidistant between the plates at a distance h/2 from the two plates, p is the pressure variable and µ is the dynamic viscosity term. The maximum and average velocities are, respectively:

- (A) 𝑢max = − 8𝜇 ℎ2 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 and 𝑢avg = 2𝑢max
- (B) 𝑢max = ℎ2 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 and 𝑢avg = 2𝑢max
- (C) 𝑢max = −ℎ2 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 and 𝑢avg = 3𝑢max
- (D) 𝑢max = ℎ2 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 and 𝑢avg = 3𝑢max

# Q.46

A suspension of sand like particles in water with particles of diameter 0.10 mm and below is flowing into a settling tank at 0.10 m3/s. Assume g = 9.81 m/s2, specific gravity of particles = 2.65, and kinematic viscosity of water = 1.0105×10−2 cm/s. The minimum surface area (in m2) required for this settling tank to remove particles of size 0.06 mm and above with 100% efficiency is ______________.

# Q.47

A surface water treatment plant operates round the clock with a flow rate of 35 m3/min. The water temperature is 15 °C and jar testing indicated an alum dosage of 25 mg/l with flocculation at a Gt value of 4×104 producing optimal results. The alum quantity required for 30 days (in kg) of operation of the plant is ____________.

# Q.48

An effluent at a flow rate of 2670 m3/d from a sewage treatment plant is to be disinfected. The laboratory data of disinfection studies with a chlorine dosage of 15 mg/l yield the model N = Noe−0.145t where t = number of micro‑organisms surviving at time t (in min.) and No = number of micro‑organisms present initially (at t = 0). The volume of disinfection unit (in m3) required to achieve a 98% kill of micro‑organisms is ______________.
---
# GATE 2014 SET‑2 CIVIL – CE

# Q.49

A waste water stream (flow = 2 m3/s, ultimate BOD = 90 mg/l) is joining a small river (flow = 12 m3/s, ultimate BOD = 5 mg/l). Both water streams get mixed up instantaneously. Cross-sectional area of the river is 50 m2. Assuming the de-oxygenation rate constant, k = 0.25/day, the BOD (in mg/l) of the river water, 10 km downstream of the mixing point is

- (A) 1.68
- (B) 12.63
- (C) 15.46
- (D) 1.37

# Q.50

In a Marshall sample, the bulk specific gravity of mix and aggregates are 2.324 and 2.546 respectively. The sample includes 5% of bitumen (by total weight of mix) of specific gravity 1.10. The theoretical maximum specific gravity of mix is 2.441. The void filled with bitumen (VFB) in the Marshall sample (in %) is ___________

# Q.51

A student riding a bicycle on a 5 km one-way street takes 40 minutes to reach home. The student stopped for 15 minutes during this ride. 60 vehicles overtook the student (assume the number of vehicles overtaken by the student is zero) during the ride and 45 vehicles while the student stopped. The speed of vehicle stream on that road (in km/hr) is

- (A) 7.5
- (B) 12
- (C) 40
- (D) 60

# Q.52

On a section of a highway the speed-density relationship is linear and is given by v = [80−2k]; where v is in km/h and k is in veh/km. The capacity (in veh/h) of this section of the highway would be

- (A) 1200
- (B) 2400
- (C) 4800
- (D) 9600

# Q.53

A pre-timed four phase signal has critical lane flow rate for the first three phases as 200, 187 and 210 veh/hr with saturation flow rate of 1800 veh/hr/lane for all phases. The lost time is given as 4 seconds for each phase. If the cycle length is 60 seconds, the effective green time (in seconds) of the fourth phase is ______________

# Q.54

A tacheometer was placed at point P to estimate the horizontal distances PQ and PR. The corresponding stadia intercepts with the telescope kept horizontal, are 0.320 m and 0.210 m, respectively. The ∠QPR is measured to be 61° 30' 30". If the stadia multiplication constant = 100 and stadia addition constant = 0.10 m, the horizontal distance (in m) between the points Q and R is _________________
---
# GATE 2014

# SET‑2

# CIVIL – CE

# Q.55

The chainage of the intersection point of two straights is 1585.60 m and the angle of intersection is 140o. If the radius of a circular curve is 600.00 m, the tangent distance (in m) and length of the curve (in m), respectively are

- (A)  418.88  and  1466.08
- (B)  218.38  and  1648.49
- (C)  218.38  and  418.88
- (D)  418.88  and  218.38

END OF THE QUESTION PAPER

CE02 (GATE 2014)

CE 11/11
---
# GATE 2014

# Answer Keys for CE ‐ Civil Engineering

|Section|Q. No.|SESSION ‐ 2|Key / Range|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|GA|1| |D|1|
|GA|2| |A|1|
|GA|3| |C|1|
|GA|4| |25 to 25|1|
|GA|5| |A|1|
|GA|6| |A|2|
|GA|7| |C|2|
|GA|8| |D|2|
|GA|9| |C|2|
|GA|10| |0.48 to 0.49|2|
|CE|1| |B|1|
|CE|2| |88 to 88|1|
|CE|3| |B|1|
|CE|4| |D|1|
|CE|5| |B|1|
|CE|6| |B|1|
|CE|7| |B|1|
|CE|8| |40.00 to 40.00|1|
|CE|9| |D|1|
|CE|10| |3.5 to 3.5|1|
|CE|11| |B|1|
|CE|12| |0 to 0|1|
|CE|13| |A|1|
|CE|14| |D|1|
|CE|15| |D|1|
|CE|16| |81.0 to 81.5|1|
|CE|17| |D|1|
|CE|18| |D|1|
|CE|19| |D|1|
|CE|20| |D|1|
|CE|21| |A|1|
|CE|22| |C|1|
|CE|23| |20.0 to 20.0|1|
|CE|24| |D|1|
|CE|25| |D|1|
|CE|26| |A|2|
|CE|27| |0.25 to 0.28|2|
|CE|28| |2.0 to 2.0|2|
|CE|29| |3.0 to 3.0|2|
|CE|30| |B|2|
|CE|31| |2.38 to 2.45|2|
|CE|32| |50.0 to 50.0|2|
|CE|33| |C|2|
|CE|34| |C|2|
|CE|35| |B|2|
|CE|36| |5.0 to 5.0|2|
|CE|37| |21.0 to 23.0|2|
|CE|38| |A|2|
|CE|39| |6150 to 6190|2|
|CE|40| |B|2|
|CE|41| |318 to 319|2|
|CE|42| |C|2|
|CE|43| |2.45 to 2.55|2|
|CE|44| |91 to 91|2|
|CE|45| |A|2|
|CE|46| |31.0 to 32.0|2|
|CE|47| |37800 to 37800|2|
|CE|48| |49.0 to 51.0|2|
|CE|49| |C|2|
|CE|50| |62 to 66|2|
|CE|51| |D|2|
|CE|52| |B|2|
|CE|53| |14.0 to 18.0|2|
|CE|54| |28.0 to 29.0|2|
|CE|55| |C|2|