SESSION - 1
---
# Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering

Notations :

- Options shown in green color and with  icon are correct.
- Options shown in red color and with  icon are incorrect.

Question Paper Name: EC: ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING 31st Jan Shift1

Number of Questions: 65

Total Marks: 100.0

# Section 1

Number of Questions: 10

Section Marks: 15.0

# Question Number : 1

Question Type : MCQ

Choose the most appropriate word from the options given below to complete the following sentence.

The principal presented the chief guest with __________ as token of appreciation

- (A) momlento
- (B) memento
- momlentum
- moment

# Question Number : 2

Question Type : MCQ

Choose the appropriate word phrase out of the four options given below to complete the following sentence-

Frogs __________

- croak
- roar
- hiss
- patter

# Question Number : 3

Question Type : MCQ
---
# Choose the word most similar in meaning to the given word:

Educe

- (A) Exert
- Educate
- Extract
- Extend

Options :

# Question Number : 4

Question Type : MCQ

Operators D and are defined by:

aJb = - a + b

a - b

0b = a + b

a_b = ab

a - b

Find the value of (66 @ 6) _ (66 0 6).

- (A) -2
- (B) -1
- (C) 1
- (D) 2

Options :

# Question Number : 5

Question Type : MCQ

If logz (5/7) = -1/3, then the value of x is:

- 343/125
- 125/343
- -25/49
- -49/25

Options :

# Question Number : 6

Question Type : MCQ

The following question presents a sentence part of which is underlined. Beneath the sentence you find four ways of phrasing the underlined part. Following the requirements of the standard written English select the answer that produces the most effective sentence:

Tuberculosis together with its effects ranks one of the leading causes of death in India.

- ranks as one of the leading causes of death
- rank as one of the leading causes of death
- has the rank of one of the leading causes of death
- are one of the leading causes of death
---
# Options :

# Question Number : 7

# Question Type : MCQ

Read the following paragraph and choose the correct statement.

Climate change has reduced human security and threatened human well being. An ignored reality of human progress is that human security largely depends upon environmental security. But on the contrary, human progress seems contradictory to environmental security. To keep up both at the required level is a challenge to be addressed by one and all. One of the ways to curb the climate change may be suitable scientific innovations - while the other may be the Gandhian perspective on small scale progress with focus on sustainability.

- Human progress and security are positively associated with environmental security.
- Human progress is contradictory to environmental security.
- Human security is contradictory to environmental security.
- Human progress depends upon environmental security.

# Question Number : 8

# Question Type : NAT

Fill in the missing value

Correct Answer : 3

# Question Number : 9

# Question Type : MCQ
---
# Question Number: 10

A cube of side 3 units is formed using a set of smaller cubes of side 1 unit. Find the proportion of the number of faces of the smaller cubes visible to those which are NOT visible.

Options:

- (A) 1 : 4
- (B) 1 : 3
- (C) 1 : 2
- (D) 2 : 3

Question Type: MCQ

# Question Number: 11

Humpty Dumpty sits on a wall every day while having lunch. The wall sometimes breaks. A person sitting on the wall falls if the wall breaks. Which one of the statements below is logically valid and can be inferred from the above sentences?

- Humpty Dumpty always falls while having lunch
- Humpty Dumpty does not fall sometimes while having lunch
- Humpty Dumpty never falls during dinner
- When Humpty Dumpty does not sit on the wall the wall does not break

Options:

# Electronics and Communication Engineering

Number of Questions: 55

Section Marks: 85.0

# Question Number: 12

Consider a system of linear equations: x - 2y + 3z = -1, r - 3y + 4 = 1, and -21 + 4y - 62 = k. The value of k for which the system has infinitely many solutions is.

Correct Answer: 2
---
# Question Number : 13

Question Type : MCQ

Suppose A and B are two independent events with A and B be their complements. Which one of the following statements is FALSE?

- (A) P(AnB) = P(A)P(B)
- (B) P(A|B) = P(A)
- (C) P(AU B) = P(A) + P(B)
- (D) P(AnB) = P(A)P(B)

# Question Number : 14

Question Type : MCQ

Let z = x + iy be a complex variable. Consider that contour integration is performed along the unit circle in anticlockwise direction. Which one of the following statements is NOT TRUE?

- (A) The residue of -1 at z = 1 is 1/2
- (B) ∫c z^2 dz = 0
- (C) ∫z^m f(z) dz = 1
- (D) (complex conjugate of z) is an analytical function

# Question Number : 15

Question Type : NAT
---
The value of p such that the vector is an eigenvector of the matrix

Correct Answer: 16.5 to 17.5

# Question Number: 16

Question Type: NAT

In the circuit shown at resonance, the amplitude of the sinusoidal voltage (in Volts) across the capacitor is

40 0.1mH

10cos ωt (Volts)

Correct Answer: 24 to 26

# Question Number: 17

Question Type: NAT

In the network shown in the figure, all resistors are identical with R = 300 Ω. The resistance Rab (in Ω) of the network is

Rz R R

N R = 300 Ω

Correct Answer: 99.5 to 100.5

# Question Number: 18

Question Type: MCQ
---
In the given circuit; the values of V and V respectively are

|(A)|5V, 25 V|
|---|---|
|(B)|10 V, 30 V|
|(C)|15 V, 35 V|
|(D)|0 V, 20 V|

Options :

# Question Number : 19

# Question Type : MCQ

A region of negative differential resistance is observed in the current voltage characteristics of silicon PN junction if

- both the P-region and the N-region are heavily doped
- the N-region is heavily doped compared to the P-region
- the P-region is heavily doped compared to the N-region
- an intrinsic silicon region is inserted between the P-region and the N-region

Options :

# Question Number : 20

# Question Type : NAT

A silicon sample is uniformly doped with donor type impurities with concentration of 1016 Icm-3. The electron and hole mobilities in the sample are 1200 cm2 V-1 s-1 and 400 cm2 V-1 s-1 respectively. Assume complete ionization of impurities. The charge of an electron is 1.6 x 10-19 C. The resistivity of the sample (in Ω-cm) is

Correct Answer : 0.50 to 0.54

# Question Number : 21

# Question Type : MCQ
---
For the circuit with ideal diodes shown in the figure, the shape of the output (Vout) for the given sine wave input will

Vout

Options :

# Question Number : 22

# Question Type : NAT

In the circuit shown below, the Zener diode is ideal and the Zener voltage is 6 V. The output voltage Vo (in volts) is

10V

Correct Answer : 5

# Question Number : 23

# Question Type : MCQ
---
In the circuit shown the switch SW is thrown from position B at time t = 0. The energy (in LLJ) taken from the 3 V source to charge the 0.1 UF capacitor from 0 V to 3 V is

|120 Q|SW| |0.1 LF|
|---|---|---|---|
|(A) 0.3|(B) 0.45| | |

Options :

Question Number : 24 Question Type : MCQ

In an 8085 microprocessor; the shift registers which store the result of an addition and the overflow are, respectively

B and FA and FH and FA and €
Options :

Question Number : 25 Question Type : NAT

A 16 Kb (=16,384 bit) memory array is designed as

TOWS 1S equal to the number of columns).

TOW decoder 15

Correct Answer:

7

The minimum number of address lines needed for the

Question Number : 26 Question Type : NAT
---
# Consider four bit D to A converter:

The analog value corresponding to digital signals of values 0000 and 0001 are 0 V and 0.0625 V respectively. The digital signal 1111 is

Correct Answer: 0.93 to 0.94

analog Value (in Volts) corresponding to

# Question Number: 27

# Question Type: MCQ

The result of the convolution x(-t) * 8(-t + t0) is

- (A) x(t + t0)
- (B) x(t - t0)
- (C) x(-t + t0)
- (D) x(-t - t0)

# Question Number: 28

# Question Type: NAT

The waveform of periodic signal x(t) is shown in the figure. The signal g(t) is defined by g(t) = ... The average power of g(t) is

Correct Answer: 2

# Question Number: 29

# Question Type: MCQ

Negative feedback in closed-loop control system DOES NOT

- reduce the overall gain
- reduce bandwidth
- improve disturbance rejection
- reduce sensitivity to parameter variation
---
# Question Number : 30

Question Type : NAT

A unity negative feedback system has the open-loop transfer function G(s) = s(s+1)(5+3). The value of the gain K(0) at which the root locus crosses the imaginary axis is:

Correct Answer : 12

# Question Number : 31

Question Type : MCQ

The polar plot of the transfer function G(s) = 10(s+1) for 0 ≤ θ ≤ 90° will be in the:

- first quadrant
- second quadrant
- third quadrant
- fourth quadrant

Options :

# Question Number : 32

Question Type : MCQ

A sinusoidal signal of 2 kHz frequency is applied to a delta modulator. The sampling rate and step-size of the delta modulator are 20,000 samples per second and 0.1 V, respectively. To prevent slope overload, the maximum amplitude of the sinusoidal signal (in Volts) is:

- 1
- 2
- D)

# Question Number : 33

Question Type : MCQ
---
Consider the signal s(t) = m(t) cos(2n f t) + m(t) sin(2n f t) where m(t) denotes the Hilbert transform of m(t) and the bandwidth of m(t) is very small compared to fc. The signal s(t) is

- (A) high-pass signal
- low-pass signal
- band-pass signal
- double sideband suppressed carrier signal

Options :

Question Number : 34 Question Type : MCQ

Following plots (in linear scale) qualitatively represent the dependence of Ho on 1, where Ho is the magnitude of the azimuthal component of magnetic field outside the conductor and is the radial distance from the conductor?

- (A) Ho
- Ho
- Ho
- Ho

Options :

Question Number : 35 Question Type : NAT
---
The electric field component of a plane wave traveling in a lossless dielectric medium is given by

E(z,t) = a * 2cos(10't)

The wavelength (in m) for the wave is

Correct Answer: 8.85 to 8.92

# Question Number: 36

Question Type: MCQ

The solution of the differential equation dt²/dy + 2 dt/dy + y = 0 with y(0) = J(0) = 1 is

- (A) -tet
- (B) (1 + 2t)e-t
- (C) (2 + t)e-t
- (D) (1 - 2tet

# Question Number: 37

Question Type: MCQ

A vector P is given by F = xy ax + x/y2 ay - x/y3 = 6z. Which one of the following statements is TRUE?

- P is solenoidal, but not irotational
- F is irotational, but not solenoidal
- (C) F is neither solenoidal nor irotational
- (D) F is both solenoidal and irotational

# Question Number: 38

Question Type: MCQ
---
# Question Number: 39

Which one of the following graphs describes the function f(x) = e-x(x2 + x + 1)?

(A)

Options:

# Question Number: 40

The maximum area (in square units) of rectangle whose vertices lie on the ellipse x + 4y = 1 is

Correct Answer: 0.95 to 1.05

# Question Number: 41

The damping ratio of a series RLC circuit can be expressed as

(A) Rc

(B) RC

(C) 2L

(D) 2 Va

Options:
---
# Question Number : 42

In the circuit shown switch SW is closed at t = 0. Assuming zero initial conditions, the value of Vc(t) (in Volts) at t =        sec 1S

Correct Answer: 2.48 to 2.58

# Question Number : 43

In the given circuit; the maximum power (in Watts) that can be transferred to the load R is

Correct Answer: 1.6 to 1.7

# Question Number : 44

The built-in potential of an abrupt p-n junction is 0.75 V. If its junction capacitance (Cj) at reverse bias (Vx) of 1.25 V is 5 pF, the value of Cj (in pF) when Vr = 7.25 V is

Correct Answer: 2.4 to 2.6
---
# Question Number : 45

A MOSFET in saturation has drain current of mA for Vps = 0.5V. If the channel length modulation coefficient is 0.05 V, the output resistance (in kΩ) of the MOSFET is

Correct Answer : 19 to 21

# Question Number : 46

For silicon diode with long P and N regions, the accepter and donor impurity concentrations are x 101 cm-3 and 10+5 cm-3 respectively: The lifetimes of electrons in P region and holes in N region are both 100 µs. The electron and hole diffusion coefficients are 49 cm2/s and 36 cm2/s, respectively. Assume kT/q = 26 mV, the intrinsic carrier concentration is 1 * 1010 cm-3 and density (in nA/cm2). When a forward voltage of 208 mV is applied across the diode, the hole current injected from P region to N region is

Correct Answer : 28 to 30

# Question Number : 47

The product of sum (POS) form is the Boolean expression F(XYZ)=Xyz+XFZ+XYz+XYZ converted into the canonical

(A) (X+Y+Z)(X+Y+Z)(X+Y+Z)(X+Y+Z)

(B) (X+Y+Z)(X+Y+Z)(X+Y+Z)(X+Y+Z)

(C) (X+Y+2)(X+Y+2)(X+Y+2)(X+Y+Z)

(D) (X+Y+Z)(K+Y+2)(X+Y+Z)(X+Y+z)

# Question Number : 48

All the logic gates shown in the figure have until time t = 0. At t = 0, all the inputs flip (i.e., A=c = 0 and B=1 and B=0) and remain in that state. For t > 0, output Z = 1 for a duration (in ns) of

Correct Answer : 40
---
# Question Number : 48

# Question Type : MCQ

3-input majority gate is defined by the logic function M (a.b.c) = ab + bc + ca. Which one of the following gates is represented by the function M(M (a.b.c), M(a.b.8).c)?

- (A) 3-input NAND gate
- (B) 3-input XOR gate
- (C) 3-input NOR gate
- (D) 3-input XNOR gate

# Question Number : 49

# Question Type : MCQ

For the NMOSFET in the circuit shown, the threshold voltage is Vth. The voltage Vss is varied from Neglecting the channel length modulation, the drain current Id where Vth > 0. The source function of Vss is represented by:

- (A) Vop - Vth
- (B) Vpp
- (C) Vmh
- (D) Vpp - Vth
---
# Question Number : 50

Question Type : NAT

In the circuit shown assume the opamp is ideal. The bridge output voltage Vo (in mV) for 6 = 0.05 is

|250 (1+6)|250|(1-8) n| | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|250 (1-8) Q|250 (1+8) Q| |100 9|50|

Correct Answer : 249 to 251

# Question Number : 51

Question Type : MCQ

The circuit shown in the figure has an ideal opamp. The oscillation frequency and the condition to sustain the oscillations respectively; are

|and R1 = R2|and R1 = 4R2|
|---|---|
|2CR|and Ru = R2|
|2CR|and Ru = 4R2|

Options :
---
# Question Number : 52

Question Type : NAT

In the circuit shown Ij = 80 mA and Iz = 4 mA. Transistors T and Tz are identical. Assume that the thermal voltage Vz is 26 mV at 27 °C. At 50 °C, the value of the voltage Vz = V ~ Vz (in mV) is Vs.

# Correct Answer :

83.5 to 84.0

# Question Number : 53

Question Type : MCQ

Two sequences [a, b, c] and [4 B, c] are related as Wi = eWs where Ws = Wi.

If another sequence [p, g, r] is derived as,

I 4/3

5 Wi Ws Wi Wi Jc/3 B/3

then the relationship between the sequences [p, g, r] and [a, b, c] is:

- (A) [p, g, r] - [b, a, c]
- (B) [p, g, r] - [b, c, a]
- (C) [p, g, r] - [c, a, b]
- (D) [p, g, r] - [c, b, a]

# Question Number : 54

Question Type : MCQ
---
# For the discrete-time system shown in the figure, the poles of the system transfer function are located at

(A) 2,
(D) 2,
# Options :

# Question Number : 55

# Question Type : MCQ

The pole-zero diagram of a causal and stable discrete-time system is shown in the figure. The origin has multiplicity 4. The impulse response of the system is h[n]: If h[0] we can conclude

|Im(=)|+os|
|---|---|
|Re(=)| |
|05| |
|-05| |

# Options :

- (A) h[n] is real for all n
- (B) h[n] is purely imaginary for all n
- (C) h[n] is real for only even n
- (D) h[n] is purely imaginary for only odd n

# Question Number : 56

# Question Type : NAT
---
The open-loop transfer function of a plant in unity feedback configuration is given as

G(s) = K / ((s + 4)(s + 8))

The value of the gain K0 for which 1 + j2 lies on the root locus is

Correct Answer: 25 to 26

# Question Number: 57

Question Type: NAT

A lead compensator network includes a parallel combination of R and C in the feed-forward path. If the transfer function of the compensator is G = (s + 2) / (s + 4), the value of RC is

Correct Answer: 0.5

# Question Number: 58

Question Type: MCQ

The plant transfer function is given as G(s) = ... When the plant operates in unity feedback configuration; the condition for the stability of the closed loop system is

- (A) K1 > Kp > 0
- (B) 2K1 > Kp > 0
- (C) 2K1 < Kp
- (D) 2K1 > Kp

# Question Number: 59

Question Type: NAT
---
The input X to the Binary Symmetric Channel (BSC) shown in the figure is 1' with probability 0.8. The cross-over probability is 1/7. If the received bit Y = 0, the conditional probability that was transmitted is

|P[T = 0]|0.2|
|---|---|
|P[T = 1]|0.8|

Correct Answer: 0.39 to 0.41

# Question Number: 60

# Question Type: NAT

The transmitted signal in GSM system is of 200 kHz bandwidth and 8 users share common bandwidth using TDMA. If at a given time 12 users are talking in a cell the total bandwidth of the signal received by the base station of the cell will be at least (in kHz)

Correct Answer: 400

# Question Number: 61

# Question Type: NAT

In the system shown in Figure, band-pass filter H(f) is shown in Figure (b). If it is desired that the output signal m(t) is a low-pass signal with bandwidth W Hz, the frequency response of the z(t) = 10x(t), the maximum value of W (in Hz) should be strictly less than

x(t) = m(t) cos(2400nt)

y(t) = 10x(t) + x-(t)

Amplifier Band-pass filter

-1700 700 700 1700 f (Hz)
---
# Correct Answer:

349 to 350

# Question Number: 62

Question Type: MCQ

Source emits bit 0 with probability and bit 1 with probability. The emitted bits are communicated to the receiver. The receiver decides for either 0 or 1 based on the received value R. It is given that the conditional density functions of R are:

f0(r) = -3 < t < 1 and f1(r) = -1 otherwise.

The minimum decision error probability is:

- (A) 1/12
- (C) 1/9
- (D) 1/6

# Question Number: 63

Question Type: MCQ

The longitudinal component of the magnetic field inside an air-filled rectangular waveguide made of a perfect electric conductor is given by the following expression:

Hz(x,y,z,t) = 0.1 cos(251x) cos(30.3y) cos(121 x 109t - Bz) (A/m)

The cross-sectional dimensions of the waveguide are given as a = 0.08 m and b = 0.033 m. The mode of propagation inside the waveguide is:

- (A) TM0
- (C) TE1
- (D) TE1

# Question Number: 64

Question Type: NAT
---
The electric field intensity of a plane wave traveling in free space is given by the following expression:

E(x,t) = E0 7ay 24T cos(wt - k0x) (V/m)

In this field consider a square area 10 cm x 10 cm on the plane x + y = 1. The total time-averaged power (in mW) passing through the square area is:

Correct Answer: 53 to 54

# Question Number: 65

# Question Type: NAT

Consider a uniform plane wave with amplitude (E0) of 10 V/m and 1.1 GHz frequency traveling in a dielectric medium with complex relative permittivity and permeability (ε) as shown in the figure:

|Air|Dielectric|
|---|---|
|ε1 = 120 Ω|ε2 = 1 - j2|
| |L2 = 1 - j2|
|10 cm|IEL = ?|
| |E0 = 10 V/m|
| |Freq = 1.1 GHz|

The magnitude of the transmitted electric field component (in V/m) after it has travelled 10 cm inside the dielectric region is:

Correct Answer: 0.08 to 0.12
---
SESSION - 2
---
# Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering

Notations:

Question Paper Name: EC: ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING 31st Jan Shift2

Number of Questions: 65

Total Marks: 100.0

# Section 1

Number of Questions: 10

Section Marks: 15.0

# Question Number: 1

Question Type: MCQ

Choose the appropriate word phrase out of the four options given below, to complete the following sentence:

Dhoni, as well as the other team members of Indian team, present on the occasion.

(A) were &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (B) was &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (C) has &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (D) have

Options:

# Question Number: 2

Question Type: MCQ

Choose the word most similar in meaning to the given word:

Awkward

(A) Inept &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (B) Graceful &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (C) Suitable &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (D) Dreadful

Options:

# Question Number: 3

Question Type: MCQ
---
# What is the adverb for the given word below?

Misogynous

- (A) Misogynousness
- (B) Misogynity
- (C) Misogynously
- (D) Misogynous

Options:

# Question Number: 4

# Question Type: MCQ

An electric bus has onboard instruments that report the total electricity consumed since the start of the trip as well as the total distance covered. During single stretches M, N, O, and P, in that order. The cumulative distances travelled and the corresponding electricity consumption are shown in the Table below:

|Stretch|Cumulative distance (km)|Electricity used (kWh)|
|---|---|---|
|M| | |
|N| | |
|O| | |
|P| | |

The stretch where the electricity consumption per km is minimum is:

- (A) M
- (B) N
- (C)
- (D)

Options:

# Question Number: 5

# Question Type: MCQ

Ram and Ramesh appeared in an interview for two vacancies in the same department. The probability of Ram's selection is 1/6 and that of Ramesh is 1/8. What is the probability that only one of them will be selected?

- 47/48
- 1/4
- 13/48
- 35/48

Options:
---
# Question Number : 6

# Question Type : MCQ

In the following sentence certain parts are underlined and marked P contain certam €TOT may not be acceptable in standard written communication_ containing an eTTOr. Choose Das YOur answer if there is nO eTTOI:

The student corrected all the ertors that the_instuctor_marked_on the answerbook

(A) P
B)
(C) R
Options :

Q and R One of the parts may Select the part

(D) No Enor

# Question Number : 7

# Question Type : MCQ

Given below are two statements followed by two conclusions. Assuming these statements to be tre. decide which one logically follows_

Statements-

All film stars are playback singers.

IL All flm directors are film stars

Conclusions:

All film directors are playback singers_

Some film stars are film directors_

Only conclusion follows_

Only conclusion I follows:

Neither conclusion and II follow.

Both conclusions nor I follows_

Options :

# Question Number : 8

# Question Type : NAT

A tiger is 50 leaps of its Own behind Jmetre per leap respectively what distance 1n metres Will the deer. The tiger takes 5 Jeaps ~ per mlinute to the deer $ 4. If the tiger and the deer cover metre and tiger have to Tun before it catches the deer?

Correct Answer :

800

# Question Number : 9

# Question Type : MCQ
---
If a + b + c = 1 then ab + bc + ac lies in the interval

- (A) [1, 2/3]
- (B) [-1/2, 1]
- (C) [-1, 1/2]
- (D) [2, -4]

Options:

# Question Number: 10

Question Type: MCQ

Lamenting the gradual sidelining of the arts in school curricula, a group of prominent artists wrote to the Chief Minister last year, asking him to allocate more funds to support arts education in schools. However, no such increase has been announced in this year's Budget. The artists expressed their deep anguish at their request not being approved, but many of them remain optimistic about funding in the future.

Which of the statement(s) below is/are logically valid and can be inferred from the above statements?

- The artists expected funding for the arts to increase this year.
- The Chief Minister was receptive to the idea of increasing funding for the arts.
- The Chief Minister is a prominent artist.
- Schools are giving less importance to arts education nowadays.

(iii) and (iv) (D) and (iii)

Options:

Number of Questions: 55

Section Marks: 85.0

# Question Number: 11

Question Type: MCQ

The bilateral Laplace transform of a function f(t) = 1 if a ≤ t ≤ b, otherwise 0

(A) a - b

(B) (a - b)

(C) (D)

Options:
---
# Question Number : 12

# Question Type : MCQ

The value of x for which all the eigen-values of the matrix given below are real is

|5 + j|20|
|---|---|
|~10| |

(A) 5 + j &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (B) 5 - j &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (C) 1 - 5j &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (D) 1 + 5j

# Question Number : 13

# Question Type : NAT

Let f(z) = az + b If f(21) = f(zz forall 21 # 2z' a = 2, b = 4 and c = 5, then d should be equal to

Correct Answer : 9.9 to 10.1

# Question Number : 14

# Question Type : MCQ

The general solution of the differential equation ax

tan Y - cot x = c (c is a constant)

tan Y + cot r = c (c is a constant)

Options :

- I + cos 2y
- 1 - cos 2x
- tan x - cot y = c (c is a constant)
- tan x + cot y = c (c is constant)

# Question Number : 15

# Question Type : MCQ
---
The magnitude and phase of the complex Fourier series coefficients Gk of a periodic signal x(t) are shown in the figure. Choose the correct statement from the four choices given. Notation: C is the set of complex numbers, R is the set of purely real numbers and P is the set of purely imaginary numbers.

3 4 3 - -1 1 2 3 >k

ZA: Lk

3 4 3 - -1

x(t) € R

x(t) € P

x(t) € (C - R)

the information given is not sufficient to draw any conclusion about x(t)

Options:

# Question Number: 16

# Question Type: NAT

The voltage (Vc) across the capacitor (in Volts) in the network shown is

40 V

100 V, 50 Hz

# Correct Answer:

100

# Question Number: 17

# Question Type: NAT
---
In the circuit shown, the average value of the voltage Vab (in Volts) in steady state condition is

|1 pF|1 mH|2k|5V|
|---|---|---|---|
|S1 sin(5000t)|S1 sin(5000t)|S1 sin(5000t)|S1 sin(5000t)|

Correct Answer: 4.9 to 5.1

# Question Number : 18

Question Type : MCQ

The 2-port admittance matrix of the circuit shown is given by

|[0.3|0.31|0.2|[15|15]|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|[3.33|3.33]|[0.3|0.4|0.41|

# Question Number : 19

Question Type : NAT

An n-type silicon sample is uniformly illuminated with light which generates 1020 electron-hole pairs per cm2 per second. The minority carrier lifetime in the sample is

Correct Answer: 14
---
# Question Number : 20

# Question Type : NAT

cm of silicon is doped uniformly with phosphorous with doping concentration of dopant ionization is shown below. The charge of an electron is 1.6 X 10-19. The conductivity (in $ cm-1 ) of the silicon sample at 300K is

# Hole and Electron Mobility in Silicon at 300 K

| |1400| |1200| |1000| |800|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| |400| |200| | | | |
|1.E+13|1.E+14|1.E+15|1.E+16|1.E+17|1.E+18|1.E+19|1.E+20|

Correct Answer : 1.8 to 2.0

# Question Number : 21

# Question Type : MCQ

If the circuit shown has to function as a clamping circuit then which one of the following conditions should be satisfied for the Sinusoidal signal of period-

- (A) RC << T
- (B) RC = 0.35 T
- (C) RC ~ T
- (D) RC >> T

Options :
---
# Question Number : 22

Question Type : NAT

In the circuit shown Vo = Vat for switch SW in position A and Vo = VoB for SW position B. Assume that the opamp is ideal. The value of Vo.

Correct Answer : 1.5

# Question Number : 23

Question Type : NAT

In the bistable circuit shown the ideal opamp has saturation levels of 1.5 V. The value of R1 (in kΩ) that gives a hysteresis width of 500 mV is

R2 = 20kΩ

Correct Answer: 1

# Question Number : 24

Question Type : MCQ
---
In the figure shown; the output Y is required to be Y = A B + € D. The gates G1 and G2 must be; respectively,

|NOR|OR|OR|NAND|
|---|---|---|---|
|NAND|OR|AND|NAND|

Options :

# Question Number : 25

# Question Type : MCQ

In an 8085 microprocessor; which one of the following instructions changes the content of the accumulator?

(A) MOV BM                                      (B) PCHL

Options :

RNZ                                            SBI BEH

# Question Number : 26

# Question Type : NAT

The value of n is

A mod-n counter using synchronous 4Bit Binary Counter

CLOCK-              CLK

Correct Answer :

7

# Question Number : 27

# Question Type : MCQ
---
Let the signal f(t) = If (t)l outside the interval [T1, T2]. where T1 and T2 are finite. Furthermore, the region of convergence (RoC) of the signal bilateral Laplace transform F(s) is:

- parallel strip containing the jn axis
- parallel strip not containing the jn axis
- the entire ~plane
- half plane containing the jn axis

# Options:

# Question Number: 28

Question Type: NAT

Two causal discrete-time signals x[n] and y[n] are related as y[n] = X[n - m]. If the z-transform of y[n] is z(z - 1)2, the value of x[2] is:

Correct Answer: 0

# Question Number: 29

Question Type: MCQ

By performing cascading and/or summing/differencing operations using transfer function blocks G1(s) and G2(s), one CANNOT realize transfer function of the form:

- (C) G0(s)
- (D) G6(s) - s6

# Question Number: 30

Question Type: MCQ
---
For the signal flow graph shown in the figure; the value of C() is R(s)

~H;

X                      X;  1       X

0 >         G1    X      G2                       G3 1s

R(s)                                                           G4

-H                                    ~H2

(A) 1-G1G2G3-HG1G2G3,-G1G2G3;+G1G2G3G4H,H,                                        G1G2G3G4

G1G2G3G4

1+G1G2G3+G1G2G3H,+G1G2G3;+G1G2G3G4H,H;

I+G1G2G3,+G1G2G3H,+G1G2G3;+G1G2G3G4H,H,

# Options :

# Question Number : 31

# Question Type : NAT

A unity negative feedback system has an open-loop transfer function G(s) = K / (s(s+10)). The gain K for the system to have a damping ratio of 0.25 is

# Correct Answer :

400

# Question Number : 32

# Question Type : NAT
---
# Question Number : 33

A sinusoidal signal of amplitude 4 is quantized by uniform quantizer. Assume that the signal utilizes all the representation levels of the quantizer. If the signal to quantization noise ratio is 31.8 dB, the number of levels in the quantizer is 32.

# Question Number : 34

The signal cos(10xt) + is ideally sampled at sampling frequency of 15 Hz. The sampled signal is passed through filter with impulse response sin(It) cos(40rt - Tt). The filter output is:

# Question Number : 35

In a source free region in vacuum if the electrostatic potential is 4 - 2x^2 + 2y^2 + cz, the value of constant must be -3.1 to -2.9.
---
The electric field of a uniform plane electromagnetic wave is

E = (ax + j4ay) exp[j(21 X 10t - 0.2z)]

The polarization of the wave is

- (A) right handed circular
- (B) right handed elliptical
- (C) left handed circular
- (D) left handed elliptical

# Question Number: 36

Question Type: MCQ

Consider the differential equation dx/dt = 10 - 0.2x with initial condition x(0) = 1. The response x(t) for t > 0 is

- (A) 2 - e^(-0.2t)
- (B) 2 - e^(0.2t)
- (C) 50 - 49e^(-0.2t)
- (D) 50 - 49e^(0.2t)

# Question Number: 37

Question Type: NAT

The value of the integral ∫12 cos(2πt) sin(4πt) dt is

Correct Answer: 3

# Question Number: 38

Question Type: NAT

If € denotes the counterclockwise unit circle, the value of the contour integral

∫z Re{z} dz
---
# Question Number: 39

Question Type: NAT

Let the random variable X represent the number of times fair CO1l needs to be tossed till two consecutive heads appear for the first time. The expectation of X is

Correct Answer: 0.5

# Question Number: 40

Question Type: MCQ

An LC tank circuit consists of an ideal capacitor C connected in parallel with a coil of inductance L having an internal resistance R. The resonant frequency of the tank circuit is

Options:

- 2IVLC
- 2TVLC
- 1-R?
- 2IVLC
- RC
- Zn-zal1-R'

# Question Number: 41

Question Type: NAT

In the circuit shown the Norton equivalent resistance (in Q) across terminals a-b

20
20
40
Correct Answer: 1.30 to 1.35
---
# Question Number : 42

Question Type : NAT

In the circuit shown the initial voltages across the capacitors C1 and C2 are 1 V and 3 V, respectively. The switch is closed at time t=0. The total energy dissipated (in Joules) in the resistor R until steady state is reached, R=10 Ω.

C1=3 F, C2=1 F

Correct Answer: 1.4 to 1.6

# Question Number : 43

Question Type : NAT

A dc voltage of 10 V is applied across an n-type silicon bar having rectangular cross-section and length of L cm as shown in figure. The donor doping concentration Np and the mobility of electrons μ are 1016 cm-3 and 1000 cm2 V-1 s-1, respectively. The average time (in µs) taken by the electrons to move from one end of the bar to the other end is 10 V.

Correct Answer: 95 to 105

# Question Number : 44

Question Type : NAT

In a MOS capacitor with an oxide layer thickness of 10 nm the maximum depletion layer thickness is 100 nm. The permittivities of the semiconductor and the oxide layer are εs and εox respectively. Assuming εs = εox, the ratio of the maximum capacitance to the minimum capacitance of this MOS capacitor is.

Correct Answer: 4.3 to 4.4

# Question Number : 45

Question Type : MCQ
---
The energy band diagram and the electron density profile n(x) in semiconductor are shown in the figures. Assume that n(x) = 1015 e- cm-3, with a = 0.1 V/cm and x expressed in cm. Given K = 0.026 V, Dn = 36 cm2 s-1 and the electron current density (in A/cm2) at X= 0 is:

|EleV|log(n(x))|Slope = ~U.leVcm|
|---|---|---|
|24.4 x 10-2|-2.2 x 10-2|(D) 2.2 x 10-2|

# Question Number: 46

# Question Type: MCQ

The function of Boolean variables X, Y and Z is expressed in terms of the min-terms as F(I, %Z) = E(1,2,5,6,7). Which one of the product of sums given below is equal to the function F(X, Y, Z)?

- (A) (F + Y + Z)(F + Y + Z)(T + Y + Z)
- (B) (T + Y + Z)(X + F + Z)(F + Y + Z)
- (C) (T + F + Z)(Y + Y + Z)(1 + F + Z)(T + Y + Z)(T + Y + Z)
- (D) (T + Y + Z)(T + Y + Z)(T + Y + Z)(1 + F + Z)(T + F + Z)

# Question Number: 47

# Question Type: MCQ
---
# Binary Counter

The figure shows the counter works as a binary counter with synchronous clear input. With the decoding logic shown.

mod-2 counter
mod-4 counter
mod-5 counter
mod-6 counter

# Options:

# Question Number: 48

# Question Type: MCQ

A 1-to-8 demultiplexer with data input Di, address inputs So, S1, S2 (with So as the LSB) and Y0 to Y7 as the eight demultiplexed outputs to be designed using two 2-to-4 decoders (with enable input E and address inputs A0 and A1) as shown in the figure connected to P, Q, R and S but not necessarily in this order: The respective input connections to P, Q, R and S terminals should be.

|(A)|Sz Di So; S1|
|---|---|
|(B)|Si Di; So, Sz|
|(C)|Di So S1; Sz|
|(D)|Di Sz, So, S1|

# Question Number: 49

# Question Type: NAT
---
The diode in the circuit given below has VoN the 4kΩ resistor is

Correct Answer: 0.59 to 0.61 0.7V but is ideal otherwise. The current (in mA) in

|2kΩ|3kΩ|Iko|
|---|---|---|
|4kΩ|6kΩ| |

# Question Number: 50

# Question Type: NAT

Assuming that the opamp in the circuit shown below is ideal, the output voltage V (in volts)

|2kΩ|Iko|12V|
|---|---|---|
| | |12V|

Correct Answer: 11 to 12

# Question Number: 51

# Question Type: NAT
---
For the voltage regulator circuit shown; the input voltage (Va) is 20 V = 20% and the regulated output voltage (Vou) is 10 V. Assume the opamp to be ideal. For load Rz drawing 200 mA the maximum power dissipation in Q1 (1n Watts)

|Vin|Vout|
|---|---|
|Ved| |
|R= 10 ko| |

Correct Answer: 2.7 to 2.9

# Question Number: 52

Question Type: NAT

In the ac equivalent circuit shown, the two BJTs are biased in active region and have identical parameters with p >>1. The open circuit small signal voltage gain is approximately

Correct Answer: -1.1 to -0.9

# Question Number: 53

Question Type: MCQ
---
Input r(t) and output y(t) of LTI system are related by the differential equation

y(t) - Y(t) - 6y(t) = x(t). If the system is neither causal nor stable; the impulse response h(t) of the system is

|3e-u + 2e-u(-t)|5e-u(-1) + 3e-u(-t)|
|---|---|
|3e-u(-) - 3e-u()|D) 3e-u(-1) - 3e-u()|

# Question Number: 54

# Question Type: NAT

Consider two real sequences with time-origin marked by the bold value;

Xi[n] = {1, 2, 3, 0}, Xz[n] = {1, 3, 2, 1}

Let Xi(k) and Xz(k) be 4-point DFTs of xi[n] and xz[n], respectively -

Another sequence Xz[n] is derived by taking 4-point inverse DFT of Xa(k) = X(k)Xz(k)

The value of x[2] is

Correct Answer: 10.9 to 11.1

# Question Number: 55

# Question Type: NAT

Let x(t) = a s(t) + s(-t) with s(t) = Be-tru(t), where u(t) is the unit step function. If the bilateral Laplace transform of x(t) is

x(s) = 7 - 16, 4 < Re{s} < 4; 16

then the value of 8 is

Correct Answer: -2

# Question Number: 56

# Question Type: MCQ
---
The state variable representation of a system is given as

x; x(o) [8]

y=[0 1]x

The response y(t) is

- (A) sin(t)
- (B) 1-e
- (C) 1-cos(t)

Options :

Question Number : 57 Question Type : MCQ

The output of standard second-order system for unit step input is given as

y = 1 - Je' cos Jt - 7

The transfer function of the system is

- (A) (s+2)(s+√3)
- (B) s² + 2s + 1
- (C) s² + 2s + 3
- (D) s² + 25 + 4

Options :

Question Number : 58 Question Type : NAT

The transfer function of mass-spring-damper system is given by

Ms² + Bs + K

The frequency response data for the system are given in the following table

|in rad/s|IG(jw) in dB|arg (G(jw) deg|
|---|---|---|
|0.0|18.5| |
|-18|-1.3| |
|-18|2.6| |
|-16|-16.| |
|-117| | |
|215|-151| |
|332.8|-167| |
|45.3|-174.5| |

The unit step response of the system approaches steady state value of
---
# Correct Answer :

0.10 to 0.13

# Question Number : 59

Question Type : MCQ

zero mean white Gaussian noise having power spectral density is passed through an LTI filter whose impulse response h(t) is shown in the figure. The variance of the filtered noise at 1=4i5 h(t) 4No 2 4 No 4 No 4No

Options :

# Question Number : 60

Question Type : MCQ
---
{X}n__is an independent and identically distributed (Li.d ) random process with Xn equally likely to be +1 -1{K}S_ is another random process obtained as Yn = Xn + 0.5 Xn-1- The autocorrelation function of {Y} ~ denoted by Ry[k], is

|Ry[k]|Ry[k]|1.25|
|---|---|---|
|2|(D)| |
|Ry[k]|1.25|Ry[k]|
|1.25|22|-1|

# Options :

# Question Number : 61

# Question Type : MCQ
---
Consider binary; digital communication system which uses pulses g(t) and -g(t) for transmitting bits over an AWGN channel. If the receiver uses matched filter; which one of the following pulses will give the minimum probability of bit error?

# Question Number: 62

# Question Type: MCQ

Let X € {0,1} and Y € {0,1} be two independent binary random variables. If P(X = 0) = p and P(Y = 0) = q, then P(X + Y ≥ 1) is equal to

Options:

- pq + (1 - p)(1 - q)
- pq
- p(1 - q)
- 1 - pq

# Question Number: 63

# Question Type: NAT

An air-filled rectangular waveguide of internal dimensions a cm X b cm (a > b) has cutoff frequency of 6 GHz for the dominant TE10 mode. For the same waveguide, if the cutoff frequency of the TM mode is 15 GHz, the cutoff frequency of the TE mode in GHz is
---
Correct Answer:

13.5 to 13.8

# Question Number : 64

Question Type : NAT

Two half-wave dipole antennas placed as shown in the figure are excited with sinusoidally varying currents of frequency 3 MHz and phase shift of 1/2 between them (the element at the Origin leads in phase). If the maximum radiated E-field at the point P in the x-Y plane occurs at an azimuthal angle of 60o, the distance d (in meters) between the antennas is

Correct Answer:

49 to 51

# Question Number : 65

Question Type : MCQ

The following expression:

The electric field of a plane wave propagating in a lossless non-magnetic medium is given by the

E(z,t) = ax 5 cos(2t 109t + Bz) + ay 3 cos (21 x 10't + Bz)

The type of the polarization is:

- Right Hand Circular
- Left Hand Elliptical
- Right Hand Elliptical
- Linear
---
SESSION - 3
---
# Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering

Notations:

Question Paper Name: EC : ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING 1st Feb Shift 1

Number of Questions: 65

Total Marks: 100.0

Number of Questions: 10

Section Marks: 15.0

# Question Number : 1

Question Type : MCQ

Choose the most appropriate word from the options given below to complete the following sentence.

If the athlete had wanted to come first in the race; he                                      several hours every day:

- should practise
- should have practised
- practised
- should be practising

# Question Number : 2

Question Type : MCQ

Choose the most suitable one word substitute for the following expression:

Connotation of a road or way

- (A) Pertinacious
- (B) Viaticum
- (C) Clandestine
- (D) Ravenous

# Question Number : 3

Question Type : MCQ
---
# Choose - the correct verb to fill in the blank below:

Let us

(A) introveit alternate atheist altnist

# Options :

# Question Number : 4

# Question Type : MCQ

Find the missing sequence in the letter series below:

A CD, GHL ? UWXY

(A) LMN (B) MNO (C) MNOP (D) NOPQ

# Options :

# Question Number : 5

# Question Type : MCQ

If x > y > 1, which of the following must be true?

1. ln x > ln y
2. e > 2
3. y > x
4. Cos x > Cos y

(A) (i) and (ii) (B) (i) and (iii) (C) (ii) and (iv) (D) (iii) and (iv)

# Options :

# Question Number : 6

# Question Type : MCQ

Ram and Shyam shared a secret and promised to each other that it would remain between them.

Ram expressed himself in one of the following ways as given in the choices below: Identify the correct way as per standard English.

(A) It would remain between you and me

(B) It would remain between I and you

(C) It would remain between you and I

(D) It would remain with me
---
# Question Number : 7

# Question Type : MCQ

In the following question the first and the last sentence of the passage are in order and numbered as 2, 3, 4, and 5. The rest of the passage is split into parts and numbered. These parts are not arranged in proper order: Read the sentences and arrange them in logical sequence to make a passage and choose the correct sequence from the given options.

On Diwali the family rises early in the morning.

The whole family including the young and the old enjoy doing this.

Children let off fireworks later in the night with their friends.

At sunset, the lamps are lit and the family performs various rituals.

Father, mother, and children visit relatives and exchange gifts and sweets.

Houses look so pretty with lighted lamps all around.

Options :

- (A) 2, 5, 3, 4
- (B) 5, 2, 4, 3
- (C) 3, 5, 4, 2
- (D) 4, 5, 2, 3

# Question Number : 8

# Question Type : NAT

From a circular sheet of paper of radius 30 cm, a sector of 10% area is removed. If the remaining part is used to make a conical surface, then the ratio of the radius and height of the cone is.

Correct Answer : 1.9 to 2.2

# Question Number : 9

# Question Type : MCQ

log tan 1, log " tan, log " tan 89" is

Options :

- (A) 1
- (B) 1/√2
- (C) 0
- (D) -1

# Question Number : 10

# Question Type : MCQ
---
Ms X will be in Bagdogra from 01/05/2014 to 20/05/2014 and from 22/05/2014 to 31/05/2014. On the morning of 21/05/2014 she will reach Kochi via Mumbai.

# Which one of the statements below is logically valid and can be inferred from the above sentences?

- Ms X will be in Kochi for only one day
- Ms X will be in Kochi for one day: only in May
- Ms X will be only in Kochi for one day
- Only Ms X will be in Kochi for one day in May

# Options:

|Number of Questions:|55|
|---|---|
|Section Marks:|85.0|

# Question Number : 11

Question Type : MCQ

For 4= tan the determinant of 4T 4-1 is

- (A) sec-1
- (B) cos 41
- (C)

# Options:

# Question Number : 12

Question Type : MCQ

The partial derivative of 6y + 4x with respect to x, is

The contour on the X-V plane where the partial derivative of x2 + y2 with respect to y is equal to

- (A) Y = 2
- (B) x = 2
- (C) x + y = 4
- (D) x - y = 0

# Options:

# Question Number : 13

Question Type : MCQ
---
If C is a circle of radius with centre Zo, in the complex z-plane and if n is a non-zero integer; then

Ic(z - zo)n + i equals Ztnj (C) 2in

# Options:

# Question Number: 14

Question Type: NAT

Consider the function g(t) is

Correct Answer: 0.14 to 0.16

g(t) = e'sin(2πu(t) where u(t) is the unit step function. The area under

# Question Number: 15

Question Type: NAT

The value of 5 (2)n

Correct Answer: 2

# Question Number: 16

Question Type: NAT

For the circuit shown in the figure the Thevenin equivalent voltage (in Volts) across terminals a-b

3 n

12 V = 1A

Correct Answer: 10

# Question Number: 17

Question Type: NAT
---
In the circuit shown the voltage Vx (in Volts) is

5At
20 Ω
8 Ω
0.25Vi
Correct Answer :

7.95 to 8.05

# Question Number : 18

Question Type : NAT

At very high frequencies the peak output voltage Vo (in Volts) is

|100 pF|kΩ|kΩ|100 HF|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.0 sin(ωt)|kΩ|100 HF| |

Correct Answer :

0.49 to 0.51

# Question Number : 19

Question Type : MCQ

Which one of the following processes is preferred to form the gate dielectric (SiO2) of MOSFETs

- Sputtering
- Molecular beam epitaxy
- Wet oxidation
- Dry oxidation
---
# Options :

# Question Number : 20

Question Type : MCQ

If the base width in bipolar junction transistor is doubled, which one of the following statements will be TRUE?

- Current gain will increase
- Unity gain frequency will increase
- Emitter-base junction capacitance will increase
- Early Voltage will increase

# Question Number : 21

Question Type : NAT

In the circuit shown in the figure, the BJT has current gain (β) of 50. For an emitter-base voltage VEB of 600 mV, the emitter-collector voltage VEC (in Volts) is

60 kΩ
500 Ω
Correct Answer : 2

# Question Number : 22

Question Type : NAT

In the circuit shown using an ideal opamp, the 3-dB cut-off frequency (in Hz) is

|10 k|10 k| | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|0.1 HF|10 k|10 k| | |
---
# Question Number : 23

Question Type : NAT

In the circuit shown assume that diodes D1 and D2 are ideal average voltage Vab (in Volts) across the 0.5 µF capacitor is

50 sin (@t)

Correct Answer : 159 to 160

In the steady state condition the

# Question Number : 24

Question Type : MCQ

The circuit shown consists of J-K flip-flops corresponding to this circuit is each with an active low asynchronous reset (Rd input).

The counter

Clock

Rd

1_

Rd

17K

Rd

modulo-5 binary up counter

modulo-6 binary down counter

modulo-5 binary down counter

modulo-6 binary up counter

# Question Number : 25

Question Type : MCQ
---
# Logic

In the circuit shown diodes D1, D2, and D3 are ideal, and the inputs E1 and E2 are "0 V" for logic "0" and "10 V" for logic "1". What logic gate does the circuit represent?

- 3-input OR gate
- 3-input NOR gate
- 3-input AND gate
- 3-input XOR gate

Options:

# Question Number: 26

Question Type: MCQ

Which one of the following 8085 microprocessor programs correctly calculates the product of two 8-bit numbers stored in registers B and C?

MVIA OOH
JNZ LOOP
CMP C
LOOP DCR B
HLT
LOOP ADD € OOH
MVI A
ADD C
MVA OOH
DCR B
JNZ LOOP
HLT

Options:

# Question Number: 27

Question Type: MCQ
---
The impulse response of an LTI system can be obtained by

- differentiating the unit ramp response
- differentiating the unit step response
- integrating the unit ramp response
- integrating the unit step response

Options :

# Question Number : 28

Question Type : MCQ

Consider four-point moving average filter defined by the equation Mn] - Zi - oo, xn - i].

The condition on the filter coefficients that results in a null at zero frequency is

- (A) & = 02 = 0: 00 = -03
- (B) & = 0, = 1: @o = -03
- (C) @ = &3 = 0: 01 = 01
- (D) & = 0 = 0: @o = 03

Options :

# Question Number : 29

Question Type : NAT

Consider the Bode plot shown in the figure. Assume that all the poles and zeros are real-valued.

40 dB

40 dB/dec

40 AIBIdec

dB 300 900 Freq: (Hz)

The value of fH f1 (in Hz) is

Correct Answer :

8970

# Question Number : 30

Question Type : NAT
---
# Question Number : 31

Question Type : MCQ

The transfer function of a first-order controller is given as

Gc (s) = K(s + a) / (s + b)

where K, a and b are positive real numbers. The condition for this controller to act as a phase lead compensator is:

(A) a < b(B) a > b(C) K < ab(D) K > ab

# Question Number : 32

Question Type : MCQ

The modulation scheme commonly used for transmission from GSM mobile terminals is:

4-QAM16-PSKWalsh-Hadamard orthogonal codesGaussian Minimum Shift Keying (GMSK)

# Question Number : 33

Question Type : MCQ

A message signal m(t) = Am Sin(2πfmt) is used to modulate the phase of carrier Ac cos(2πfet) to get the modulated signal y(t) = Ac cos(2πfet - m(t)). The bandwidth of y(t):

depends on Am but not on fmdepends on fm but not on Amdepends on both Am and fmdoes not depend on Am or fm
---
# Question Number : 34

# Question Type : MCQ

The directivity of an antenna array can be increased by adding more antenna elements.

- larger number of elements
- improves the radiation efficiency
- increases the effective area of the antenna
- results in better impedance matching
- allows more power to be transmitted by the antenna

# Question Number : 35

# Question Type : MCQ

A coaxial cable is made of two brass conductors. The spacing between the conductors is filled with Teflon (ε = 2.1, tan δ = 0). Which one of the following circuits can represent the lumped element model of a small piece of this cable having length Δz?

|R|Az/2|L|Az/2|
|---|---|---|---|
|R|Az/2|L|Az/2|
|R|Az/2|L|Az/2|
|L|Az/2| | |
---
# Question Number : 36

Question Type : NAT

The Newton-Raphson method is used to solve the equation f(r) = r^3 + 6x - 8 = 0. Taking the initial guess as x = 5, the solution obtained at the end of the first iteration is

Correct Answer : 4.25 to 4.35

# Question Number : 37

Question Type : NAT

A fair die with faces {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6} is thrown repeatedly till '3' is observed for the first time. Let X denote the number of times the die is thrown

Correct Answer : 6

The expected value of X is

# Question Number : 38

Question Type : NAT

Consider the differential equation

a^2x(t) / dt^2 - 2x(t) = 0.

Given x(0) = 20 and x(1) = 10/e, where e = 2.718, the value of x(2) is

Correct Answer : 0.83 to 0.88

# Question Number : 39

Question Type : NAT

A vector field D = 2p^2 a_p + z a_z exists inside a cylindrical region enclosed by the surfaces p = 1, z = 0 and z = 5. Let S be the surface bounding this cylindrical region: The surface integral of this field on S is

Correct Answer : 78 to 79

# Question Number : 40

Question Type : NAT
---
In the circuit shown the current flowing through the 50 Ω resistor will be zero if the value of capacitor C (in µF) is

|50|1 mH|mH|
|---|---|---|
|Correct Answer: 20|Correct Answer: 20|Correct Answer: 20|

# Question Number: 41

# Question Type: MCQ

The ABCD parameters of the following 2-port network are

|1(+140)| | | | |[i40|(2+j0)f2| | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|3.5 + j2|20.5| | |[3.5 + j2|30.5| | | | |
| |20.5|3.5 - j21|0.5|3.5 - j2| | | | | |
| | |2 + j0|10|2 + j0|10| | | | |
| | | | | |(D)|[3654|30.5|7 - j4|0.5|

# Question Number: 42

# Question Type: MCQ
---
A network is described by the state model as

11 = 2X1 - X2 + 3u

12 = -4x2 - u

y = 3x1

The transfer function H(s)

115+35

115-35

(2)(5+4)

(-2)(5+4)

115+38

113-38

(5-2)(5+4)

(5-2)(5+4)

# Options :

# Question Number : 43

# Question Type : MCQ

The electric field profile in the depletion region of P-n junction in equilibrium is shown in the figure. Which one of the following statements is NOT TRUE?

- The left side of the junction is n-type and the right side is p-type
- Both the n-type and p-type depletion regions are uniformly doped
- The potential difference across the depletion region is 700 mV
- If the p-type region has doping concentration of 1015 cm-3 then the doping concentration in the n-type region will be 10-65 cm-3

# Question Number : 44

# Question Type : NAT
---
The current in an enhancement mode NMOS transistor biased in saturation mode was measured to mA at drain-source voltage of 5 V. When the drain-source voltage was increased to 6 V to source saturation voltage is much smaller than the applied drain-source voltage Assume that drain while keeping gate-source voltage same. The drain current increased to 1.02 mA. The channel length modulation parameter A (in V-1) is

Correct Answer : 0.018 to 0.026

# Question Number : 45

# Question Type : NAT

An npn BJT having reverse saturation current Is = 10-15 A is biased in the forward active region with VBE 700 mV. The thermal voltage (VT) is 25 mV and the current gain may vary from 50 to 150 due to manufacturing variations. The maximum emitter current (in μA) is

Correct Answer : 1465 to 1485

# Question Number : 46

# Question Type : MCQ

A three bit pseudo random number generator is shown. Initially the value of output F=K FY is set to 111. The value of output F after three clock cycles is

(A) 000 (B) 001 (C) 010 (D) 100

# Question Number : 47

# Question Type : MCQ
---
# Universal Logic Gates

A universal logic gate can implement any Boolean function by connecting sufficient number of them appropriately. The gates are shown:

|Gate 1|FT = X + Y|
|---|---|
|Gate 2|F2 = X - Y|
|Gate 3|F3 = X + Y|

Which one of the following statements is TRUE?

- Gate 1 is a universal gate.
- Gate 2 is a universal gate.
- Gate 3 is a universal gate.
- None of the gates shown is a universal gate.

# Question Number: 48

# Question Type: MCQ

An SR latch is implemented using TTL gates as shown in the figure. The set and reset pulse inputs are provided using the push-button switches. It is observed that the circuit fails to work as desired. The SR latch can be made functional by changing:

|Set|5 V|
|---|---|
|Reset| |

- (A) NOR gates to NAND gates
- inverters to buffers
- NOR gates to NAND gates and inverters to buffers
- 5 V to ground

# Question Number: 49

# Question Type: NAT
---
In the circuit shown assume that the opamp is ideal. If the gain (Vo/Vi) is -12, the value of R (inkO) is

0 k0
10k0
10k0
Correct Answer: 1

Question Number: 50

Question Type: NAT

The circuit shown UnCox(W /L) = ImA/V2 both the enhancement mode NMOS transistors have the following characteristics:

kn ViN 1V Assume that the channel length modulation parameter A is zero and body is shorted to source. The minimum Supply voltage VDD

Correct Answer: 2.9 to 3.1

Question Number: 51

Question Type: NAT
---
In the circuit shown assume that the diodes D and Dz are ideal. The average value of voltage Vab (Volts), across terminals a and -b' is

|10kΩ|10kΩ|10kΩ|
|---|
|61 sin(Ωt)|10kΩ|20kΩ|

Correct Answer: 4.85 to 5.15

# Question Number: 52

Question Type: MCQ

Suppose x[n] is an absolutely summable discrete-time signal. Its Z-transform is a rational function with two poles and two zeroes. The poles are at z = ±2j. Which one of the following statements is TRUE for the signal x[n]?

- (A) It is a finite duration signal
- (B) It is a causal signal
- (C) It is a non-causal signal
- (D) It is a periodic signal

# Question Number: 53

Question Type: MCQ
---
A realization of stable discrete time system is shown in the figure. If the system is excited by unit step sequence input x[n], the response y[n]

|x[n]|y[n]| |
|---|---|---|
| | |5/3|
|4(4)-n]-5(#) u[n]| |s5) vn]-{(#) u[n]|
|(C) s(2) uto]-s(2) uv]| |s3)" uin]-5()" un]|

# Options :

# Question Number : 54

# Question Type : NAT

Let x[n] = 1 + cos periodic signal with period 16. Its DFS coefficients are defined by 16 1 for all k. The value of the coefficient 431 is

Correct Answer : 0.48 to 0.52

# Question Number : 55

# Question Type : NAT

Consider continuous-time signal defined as x(t) sin "{2) t _ 10n) where denotes the convolution operation and t is in seconds. The Nyquist sampling rate (in samples/sec) for x(t) is
---
# Correct Answer :

0.39 to 0.41

# Question Number : 56

Question Type : NAT

The position control of a DC servo-motor is given in the figure. The values of the parameters are Kj = 1 N-m/A. R = 1 Ω. L = 0.1 H. J = 5 kg-m². B = 1 N-m (rad sec) and K = 1 V/(rad sec).

The steady-state position response (in radians) due to unit impulse disturbance torque Ta is

Ta(s)

Va(s)

R + Ls

S + B

O(s)

# Correct Answer :

-0.51 to -0.49

# Question Number : 57

Question Type : NAT

For the system shown in the figure, -2.75 lies on the root locus if K is

s + 3

Y(s)

5 + 2

10

# Correct Answer :

0.29 to 0.31

# Question Number : 58

Question Type : NAT

The characteristic equation

The number of roots that lie strictly in the left half s-plane of an LTI system is given by F(s) = 5s^3 - 25s^2 - 35s + 6s^2 + 45 - 8 = 0.
---
Correct Answer : 2

# Question Number : 59

Question Type : NAT

Two sequences X[n] and Xz[n] have the same energy. Suppose x_[n] = a 0.5" u[n], where & is a positive real number and u[n] is the unit step sequence. Assume xz [n] = V1.5 for n = 0,1 otherwise_

Then the value of & is

Correct Answer : 1.49 to 1.51

# Question Number : 60

Question Type : NAT

The variance of the random variable I with probability density function f6) = ZIehl _

Correct Answer : 6

# Question Number : 61

Question Type : MCQ

The complex envelope of the bandpass signal x(t) = Vz| sin(It Tt /5 sin(tr-5), centered about f=3 Hz, is

(A) sin(ut/ 52 It /5 si(32)e 4 It / 5

(C) sin(t 22 < '7 It /5 sin(Tr 52 & 4 It/5

# Question Number : 62

Question Type : NAT
---
A random binary wave y(t) is given by

y(t) = Xn p(t - nT _ $)

where p(t) is a variable with uniform distribution in [0,T]: The sequence {Xn} consists of independent and identically distributed binary valued random variables with P{Xn = +1} = P{Xn = -1} = 0.5 for each n.

The value of the autocorrelation Ryy(4E[yd)y (t - %)] equals

Correct Answer: 0.24 to 0.26

# Question Number: 63

Question Type: MCQ

Consider the long lossless air-filled transmission line shown in the figure. It has characteristic impedance of 120Ω, is terminated by short circuit, and is excited with frequency of 37.5 MHz. What is the nature of the input impedance Zi?

Z1=0

- (A) Open
- Short
- Inductive
- Capacitive

# Question Number: 64

Question Type: NAT
---
The line is connected to a 200 m long transmission line having parameters shown in the figure is terminated into a load Rz: 400 V source having source resistance Rs through switch which is closed at t = 0. The transient response of the circuit at the input of the line (z = 0) is also drawn in the figure.

|Rs = 150 Ω|Vs = 400 V|
|---|---|
|Ro = 509 Ω|er,eff = 2.25|

V(0,t)

|z = 0|z = L|t (μs)|
|---|---|---|
|100 V|62.5 V|200|
|2.0|2.0|2.0|

# Question Number: 65

# Question Type: NAT

A coaxial capacitor of inner radius m1 and outer radius m2 has capacitance per unit length of 172 pF/m. If the ratio of outer radius to inner radius is doubled, the capacitance per unit length (in pF/m)

Correct Answer: 120.0 to 120.4