# EC ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING

Duration: Three Hours

Maximum Marks: 100

Read the following instructions carefully:

This question paper contains 24 pages including blank pages for rough work. Please check all pages and report discrepancies, if any.

Write your registration number, your name and name of the examination centre at the specified locations on the right half of the Optical Response Sheet (ORS):

Using HB pencil, darken the appropriate bubble under each digit of your registration number and the corresponding letters to your paper code.

All questions in this paper are of objective type.

Questions must be answered on the ORS by darkening the appropriate bubble (marked A, B, C, D) using HB pencil against the question number on the left-hand side of the ORS. For each question, darken the bubble of the correct answer. In CBSC, if you wish to change an answer, erase the old answer completely. More than one answer bubbled against a question will be treated as an incorrect response.

There are a total of 65 questions carrying 100 marks.

Questions Q.1 - Q.25 will carry 1-mark each; and questions Q.26 - Q.55 will carry 2-marks each.

Questions Q.48 - Q.51 (2 pairs) are common data questions and question pairs (Q.52, Q.53) and (Q.54, Q.55) are linked answer questions. The answer to the second question of the linked answer questions depends on the answer to the first question of the pair. If the first question in the linked pair is wrongly answered or is un-attempted, then the answer to the second question in the pair will not be evaluated.

Questions Q.56 - Q.60 each and questions Q.61 - Q.65 belong to general aptitude (GA). Questions Q.56 - Q.60 will carry 1-mark each; Q.65 will carry 2-marks each. The GA questions will begin on a fresh page starting from page 15.

Un-attempted questions will carry zero marks.

Wrong answers will carry negative marks. For Q.1 - Q.25 and Q.56 - Q.60, 1/4 mark will be deducted for each wrong answer. For Q.26 - Q.51 and Q.61 - Q.65, 0.65 mark will be deducted for each wrong answer.

There will be negative marks only for wrong answers to the first question of the linked answer question. The question pairs (Q.52, Q.53) and (Q.54, Q.55) are questions with linked answers. Marking for Q.53 and Q.55 will be as follows: for Q.52 and Q.54, 1/4 mark will be deducted for each wrong answer. There is no negative marking for Q.54.

Calculator (without data connectivity) is allowed in the examination hall.

Charts, graph sheets or tables are NOT allowed in the examination hall.

Rough work can be done on the question paper itself. Additionally, blank pages are provided at the end of the question paper for rough work.
---
# Q.1- Q.25 carry one mark each

# Q1

The eigenvalues of a skew-symmetric matrix are

- (A) always zero
- (B) always pure imaginary
- (C) either zero or pure imaginary
- (D) always real

# Q2

The trigonometric Fourier series for the waveform f(t) shown below contains

- (A) only cosine terms and zero value for the dc component
- (B) only cosine terms and a positive value for the dc component
- (C) only cosine terms and a negative value for the dc component
- (D) only sine terms and a negative value for the dc component

# Q3

A function n(x) satisfies the differential equation dn/dx = 0, where L is a constant:

The boundary conditions are: n(0) = K and n(L) = 0. The solution to this equation is

- (A) n(x) = Kexp(x/L)
- (B) n(x) = Kexp(-x/V2)
- (C) n(x) = K1 exp(-x)
- (D) n(x) = Kexp(-x/L)

# Q4

For the two-port network shown below, the short-circuit admittance parameter matrix is

|0.50|2| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0.50| |80.5n| | | | |
|(A)|-2|-0.5| | | | |
|(B)|0.5|(D)|10.5| | | |

# Q5

For a parallel RLC circuit which one of the following statements is NOT correct?

- (A) The bandwidth of the circuit decreases if R is increased
- (B) The bandwidth of the circuit remains same if L is increased
- (C) At resonance, the input impedance is a real quantity
- (D) At resonance, the magnitude of input impedance attains its minimum value
---
0.6 At room temperature, the possible value (for the mobility of electrons in the inversion layer of a silicon n-channel MOSFET is

- (A) 450 cm2V-1s-1
- (B) 1350 cm2V-1s-1
- (C) 1800 cm2V-1s-1
- (D) 3600 cm2V-1s-1

Q7 Thin gate oxide in a CMOS process is preferably grown using

- (A) wet oxidation
- (B) dry oxidation
- (C) epitaxial deposition
- (D) ion implantation

Q8 In the silicon BJT circuit shown below, assume that the emitter area of transistor Q1 is half that of transistor Q2,

ReEJk

Q1 (Px = 700) Q2 (Pz = 715)

The value of current I is approximately

- (A) 0.5 mA
- (B) 2 mA
- (C) 93 mA
- (D) 15 mA

Q9 The amplifier circuit shown below uses a silicon transistor. The capacitors Cc and Ce can be assumed to be short at signal frequency and the effect of output resistance Ro can be ignored. If Cc is disconnected from the circuit; which one of the following statements is TRUE?

Vcc = 9V

Ra = 800kΩ

Ac = 27kΩ

Vo

B = 100

Ro

Re = 0.1kΩ

(A) The input resistance Ri increases and the magnitude of voltage gain Av decreases

(B) The input resistance Ri decreases and the magnitude of voltage gain Av increases

(C) Both input resistance Ri and the magnitude of voltage gain Av increase

(D) Both input resistance Ri and the magnitude of voltage gain Av decrease
---
# 2010

# EC

Q10 Assuming the OP-AMP to be ideal. The voltage gain of the amplifier shown below is

(A) Ri
(B) R2
(C) Ra/Rb
(D) Ra+Rb
Q11 Match the logic gates in Column A with their equivalents in Column B

|Column A|Column B|
|---|---|
|P|2|
|Q|3|
|R|5|

|(A) P-2, Q-4, R-1, S-3|(B) P-4, Q-2, R-1, S-3|
|---|---|
|(C) P-2, Q-4, R-3, S-1|(D) P-4, Q-2, R-3, S-1|

Q12 For the output F to be in the logic circuit shown; the input combination should be

|(A) A=1, B=C=0|(B) A=1, B=0, C=1|
|---|---|
|(C) A=0, B=1, C=0|(D) A=0, B=0, C=1|
---
# Current Page

In the circuit shown: the device connected to YS can have address in the range

|A8|4S|A10|To device|chip select|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|74L5438|3-t-8 decoder|A11|G2A| |
|A12|A13|G28| | |
|A14|A15|IOMM|G1| |
|(A) 20XK} = 20FF|(B) 2DO) = 2DFF| |(C) ZEQO = 2EFF|(D) FDW ~ FDFF|

Q14 Consider the z-transform X(z) = S2' + 42' + 3; 0 < |a| < w. The inverse z-transform x[n] is

- (A) 5 S[n - 2] + 3 δ[n] + 4 δ[n + 1]
- (B) 5 u[n - 2] + 3 u[n] + 4 u[n + 4]
- (C) 5 u[n] + 3 u[n] + 4 u[n - 1]
- (D) 5 u[n - 2] + 3 u[n] + 4 u[n + 4]

Q.15 Two discrete time systems with impulse responses h1[n] = 8n - 1 and h2[n] = 8[n - 2] are connected in cascade: The overall impulse response of the cascaded system is

- (A) S(n - 1) + S(n - 2)
- (B) S(n - 4)
- (C) S(n - 3)
- (D) S(n - 1) 8 n - 2

Q.16 For an N-point FFT algorithm with N = 2m which one of the following statements is TRUE?

- (A) It is not possible to construct a signal flow graph with both input and output in normal order
- (B) The number of butterflies in the mth stage is N/2
- (C) In-place computation requires storage of only N/2 node data
- (D) Computation of a butterfly requires only one complex multiplication

Q.17 The transfer function Y(s)/R(s) of the system shown is

|R(s)|Y(s)|
|---|---|
|S + 1|(B)|
|(C)|S + 3|
|(D)|2|
| |S + 1|
| |S + 3|
| |5224|
---
# 2010

# Q.18

A system with the transfer function Y(s) = X(s) has an output y(t) = p cos(2t) for the input signal x(t) = p cos(2t). Then, the system parameter p is:

- (A) V3
- (B)
- (C)

# Q.19

For the asymptotic Bode magnitude plot shown below, the system transfer function can be:

- (A) 10s + 1
- (B) 0.1s + 1
- (C) 10s + 1
- (D) 0.1s + 4
- (E) 10s + 4

# Q.20

Suppose that the modulating signal is m(t) = 2cos(2πft) and the carrier signal is fc(t) = Acos(2πft). Which one of the following is a conventional AM signal without over-modulation?

- (A) x(t) = Am(t) cos(2πft)
- (B) x(t) = A[1 + m(t)]cos(2πft)
- (C)
- (D) x(t) = Acos(2πft)cos(2πft) + A sin(2πft)sin(2πft)

# Q.21

Consider an angle modulated signal x(t) = 6cos[2π × 10^6 t + 2sin(8000πt) + 4cos(8000πt)]. The average power of x(t) is:

- (A) 10 W
- (B) 18 W
- (C) 20 W
- (D) 28 W

# Q.22

If the scattering matrix [S] of a two-port network is:

|[S] =|[0.9290|0.2Z0'|0.9Z90"]|
|---|---|---|---|
| |0.1290'| | |

Then the network is:

- (A) lossless and reciprocal
- (B) lossless but not reciprocal
- (C) not lossless but reciprocal
- (D) neither lossless nor reciprocal

# Q.23

A transmission line has characteristic impedance of 50 Ω and resistance of 0.01 Ω/m. If the line is distortionless, the attenuation constant (in Np/m) is:

- (A) 5
- (B) 5
- (C) 0.014
- (D) 0.002
---
# Q24

Consider the pulse shape F(t) as shown. The impulse response h(t) of the filter matched to this pulse is

|(A)| |(B)|
|---|---|---|
|h(t)| |h(t)|
| |(D)| |
|h(t)| |h(u)|

# Q.25

The electric field component of a time harmonic plane EM wave traveling in a non-magnetic lossless dielectric medium has an amplitude of 4, the magnitude of the time-average power density vector (in W/m²) is

|(A)|307|
|---|---|
|(B)|607|
|(C)|1207|
|(D)|2407|

# Q.26

If &lt; then &gt; has

|(A)|maximum at X = &lt;|
|---|---|
|(B)|minimum at T=e|
|(C)|maximum at &gt; = &lt;|
|(D)|minimum at {e}|

# Q.27

A fair coin is tossed independently four times. The probability of the event "the number of times heads show up is more than the number of times tails show up" is

|(A)| | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|(B)| | | | |
| |(C)| | | |
| | |(D)|16|5|
---
# Q.28

If A=wya,+1 &, then fA.dt vvct (the path shown in the figure is

y ^

4v 2v5

(A) 0
(B) 3
(C)
(D) 2v

# Q.29

The residues of the complex function X(a)= z(z-I)(= _ 2) at its poles are

(A) -2
(B) 2
(C) 1
(D) 2

# Q.30

Consider the differential equation dy(x) y() =x with the initial condition Y(0) =0. Using Euler's first order method with a step size of 0.1, the value of y(0.3) is

(A) {.(
(B) 0.03[
(C) 0.01631
(D) { }

# Q.31

Given f () =E- 35+1 Ml" lim f (t) =[, then the value of K is

(A) 1
(B) 2
(C)
(D)

# Q.32

In the circuit shown, the switch $ is open for a long time and is closed at 0. The current i(t) for t ≥ 0 is

10 9

5 t=0

1.5 A 10 ithgw n 15mH

(A) i(t) =0.$-0.42Se-lodt A
(B) i(t) =1.5-0.125e-Immr 4
(C) i6) =0.5-0.52
(D) itt =0375e-8' A
---
# Q.33

The current in the circuit shown is

|20) enl)|20Z0" v|1n|50 pF|
|---|---|---|---|
|(A) ~jA|(B) j1 4|(C) 0A|(D) 2U A|

# Q.34

In the circuit shown; the power supplied by the voltage source is

| | | | |10|0|10 v|1 A|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|10|02 A|(A) 0 W|(B) 5 W|(C) IG w|(D) HU) W| | |

# Q.35

In a uniformly doped BJT asSurTK:; that N; Nu and Nc are the emitter, base and collector dopings respectively. If the emitter injection efficiency of the BJT is close to unity; which of the following conditions is TRUE?

(A) Ng = NB = Nc(B) Nt > > Nh and Ng > Nc(C) N = N# and Ni < Nc(D) Ny < Np < Nc

# Q.36

Compared to a P-n junction with NA Np = 10"Ictn\'_, which one of the following statements is TRUE for a p-n junction with NA = Np = Q*icnt'?

(A) Reverse breakdown voltage is lower and depletion capacitance is lower(B) Reverse breakdown voltage is higher and depletion capacitance is lower(C) Reverse breakdown voltage is lower and depletion capacitance is higher(D) Reverse breakdown voltage is higher and depletion capacitance is higher

# Q.37

Assuming that all flip-flops are in reset condition initially, the count sequence observed at Qa in the circuit shown is

Output(A) (H101I;(B) (XHO|014,(D) UHHOI() _
---
# Q.38

The transfer characteristic for the precision rectifier circuit shown below is (assume ideal OP-AMP and practical diodes)

|+Z0v|4R|D2|
|---|---|---|
|V1|Vo|Vo|
|10|(A)|(B)|
|-10|5|Vo|
|Vo|(D)|V1|
|5| | |

# Q.39

The Boolean function realized by the logic circuit shown is

| | | | |Jo|4x1|F(AB,C,D)|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | |Iz|MUX| |
| | | | |Si|So| |
|(A) F= Em(0, 1, 3, 5, 9, 10, 14)|(B) F = Em(2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 12, 13)| | | | | |
|(C) F= Em(1, 2, 4, 5, 11, 14, 15)|(D) F = Em(2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 12)| | | | | |
---
# 2010

# Q.40

For the 8085 assembly language program given below, the content of the accumulator after the execution of the program is

3002
3KIU               MOV 4, 4SH
MVI                 B, A
3013                   STC
3004                   CMC
3005                   RAR
3016                    XRA                B

(A) 0H (B) 45H (C) 67H (D) E7H

# Q.41

A continuous time LTI system is described by

4yp + 4d(2 + 3y) = 2402 + 4x6
dt
dt

Assuming zero initial conditions, the response y(t) of the above system for the input x(t) = e^(-kt)u(t) is given by

(A) (e^(-kt) - e^(-k))u(t) (B) (e^(-kt) + e^(-k))u(t) (C) (e^(-kt) + e^(-k))u(t) (D) (k + 2)u(t)

# Q.42

The transfer function of a discrete time LTI system is given by

H(z) = (z^2 - 3z + 2) / (z^2 - 1)

Consider the following statements:

- S1: The system is stable and causal for ROC: |z| > 2
- S2: The system is stable but not causal for ROC: |z| < 1
- S3: The system is neither stable nor causal for ROC: 1 < |z| < 2

Which one of the following statements is valid?

(A) Both S1 and S2 are true (B) Both S2 and S3 are true (C) Both S1 and S3 are true (D) S1, S2 and S3 are all true

# Q.43

The Nyquist sampling rate for the signal s(t) = sin(500πt) sin(20πt) is given by

(A) 40 Hz (B) 60 Hz (C) 1200 Hz (D) 140 Hz

# Q.44

A unity negative feedback closed loop system has a plant with the transfer function G(s) = 2s + 2 and a controller Gc(s) in the feedforward path. For unit step input, the transfer function of the controller that gives minimum steady state error is

(A) Gc(s) = (s + 1) / (s + 2) (B) Gc(s) = (s + 2) / (s + 1)

(C) Gc(s) = (s + 4) / (s + 2s + 3) (D) Gc(s) = 1 + 2 + 3
---
# Q45

X(t) is a stationary process with the power spectral density SX(f) > 0 for all f. The process is passed through the system shown below.

Let SY(f) be the power spectral density of Y(t). Which one of the following statements is correct?

- (A) SY(f) > 0 for all f
- (B) SY(f) = 0 for |f| > 1 kHz
- (C) SY(f) = 0 for f = n f0, f0 - 2 kHz, n any integer
- (D) SY(f) = 0 for f = (2n + 1) f0, f = [kHz, n any integer

# Q46

A plane wave having the electric field component E = 24 cos(3 x 102 z - Byh) V/m and traveling in free space is incident normally on a lossless medium with ε = Z0 and μ = 960 which occupies the region z > 2. The reflected magnetic field component is given by:

- (A) 10r cos(3 x 101 t + y) am
- (B) 2Un cos(3 x 101 t + y) am
- (C) 205 cos(3 x 101 + y) am
- (D) 10r cos(3 x 101 + "ha) am

# Q47

In the circuit shown; all the transmission line sections are lossless. The Ratio (VSWR) on the 60Ω line is:

|Voltage Standing Wave|Short|Z0 = 30|N8|
|---|---|---|---|
|Z0 = 60Ω| |Z0 = 30√2|4-w|
|14| | | |

- (A) 1.00
- (B) 0.64
- (C) 2.50
- (D) 3.00
---
# Common Data Questions

# Common Data for Questions 48 and 49:

Consider the common emitter amplifier shown below with the following circuit parameters:

C=4.7, R=0.3861 AN [p= ?, Tz = 259 0, Rs = ] kΩ, Ru = 93 kΩ, Rc = 250 Ω, Rz = kΩ, Ci = 0 and 8 = KX En=

+0v

Rr

Rb

Rs

Vo ?RL

# Q.48

The resistance seen by the source Vi is

- (A) 258 Ω
- (B) 1258 Ω
- (C) 93 kΩ
- (D) 0

# Q.49

The lower cut-off frequency due to Ci is

- (A) 33.9 Hz
- (B) 27.1 Hz
- (C) 13.6 Hz
- (D) 46.9 Hz

# Common Data for Questions 50 and 51:

The signal flow graph of a system is shown below:

U(s)e I/s I/9 0.5 ~Y(s)

# Q.50

The state variable representation of the system can be

- (A) y = [1 os]*
- (B) y = [os]
- (C) y = [+~[~ &-[%]
- (D) y = [0.5 a-[4H]

# Q.51

The transfer function of the system is

- (A) 5 + [
- (B) 5 - [
- (C) s2 + 1
- (D) s + s + 1 s - 1
---
 2010
Linked Answer Queslions
   Stalenjent for Linked Answer Questions 52 and 53:
   The silicon sumple with unit cross-sectional ared shown below is in thermal equilibrium  The following
   mobility
           informulion is given: T = 300 K, clecttonic churge = [.6 x 1(-'                                                      1350 cm /V-5           C; thermal voltage = 26 mV and cleclron
                                                                                                        N            o"Icm\'
                                                             X=0                                                                                                      X=          km
   Q.52             The                                                 magnitude of the electric field at x = {5 um is
                    (A}           kVcm                                    (B) 5 kVicm                                           (C) 10kVicm                                            (D) 26 kVIcm
   Q5}               The                                                  magnitude of the electron drift current density at x = 05 um is
                    (A) 2.16 x [0* Alcm?                                  (B 1.08 x 10' Alcm?                                   (C) 4.32x 10\' Alcm"                                   (D) 6.48 x 107 Alein?
   Statement for Linked Answer Questions 54 and S5:
   Consider # huscband binary PAM receiver shown telow- The additive channel noise nlt) is white wilh
   power spectral density Sx(f) =                                                           No/2 =10-" WIHz The low-pass filter is ideal with unily Sain and
   culoff frequency                            MHz Lel Y represent the rndom variable y{  ) .
                                         X =N:                            if transmiltcd bit b; = 0
                                         Y =a + N:                        if transmitted bit h =]
    where            N         rcpresenls Ihe noise  sample   value                                                  The noise   sample has                                       probability densily (unclion_
    Px; (n) = 0.Sce"4 (This has mean zero and variance 2/u" ) Assume transmitted bits Io bc cquiprobable
   and                                threshold % is set lo a/2 = 10"6 V
                                                                                     LPF                                SH                                                    6k                   if y6)zz
                                                                                                                                                                                                   if Y(t)< z
                                                                                                                 Sampling                    Tnreshokd
                                                                                                                        time
                                                                                     Receiver
    Q.54             The vulue ol (he parameler & (in V"I )is
                     (^} 1o"                                               (B) 40?                                               (C) 1414 x 10-10                                       (D) 2 * I 2
    Q55              Thc probability of bit eror is
                     (A) (5x 25                                            (B) 05 X &^                                           (C) 0,5 * &                                            (D) 0.5 X e-1
  EC
---
# General Aptitude (GA) Questions

# 02.56 - Q.60 carry one mark each:

# Q.56

Which of the following options is the closest in meaning to the word below:

Circuitous

- (A) cyclic
- (B) indirect
- (C) confusing
- (D) crooked

# Q.57

The question below consists of a pair of related words followed by four pairs of words. Select the pair that best expresses the relation in the original pair:

Unemployed - Worker

- (A) fallow
- (B) unaware - sleeper
- (C) wit - jester
- (D) renovated

# Q.58

Choose the appropriate word from the options given below to complete the following sentence:

If we manage to __________ our natural resources; we would leave a better planet for our children.

- (A) uphold
- (B) restrain
- (C) cherish
- (D) conserve

# Q.59

Choose the appropriate word from the options given below to complete the following sentence:

His rather casual remarks on politics __________ his lack of seriousness about the subject.

- (A) masked
- (B) belied
- (C) betrayed
- (D) suppressed

# Q.60

25 persons are in a room. 15 of them play hockey, 7 of them play football, and 10 of them play both hockey and football. Then the number of persons playing neither hockey nor football is:

- (A) 2
- (B) 17
- (C) 13
- (D)

# 061-065 carry two marks each:

# Q.61

Modern warfare has changed from large scale clashes of armies to suppression of civilian populations. Chemical agents that do their work silently appear to be suited to such warfare; and regrettably, there exist people in military establishments who think that chemical agents are useful tools for their cause. Which of the following statements best sums up the meaning of the above passage:

- (A) Modern warfare has resulted in civil strife.
- (B) Chemical agents are useful in modern warfare.
- (C) Use of chemical agents in warfare would be undesirable.
- (D) People in military establishments like to use chemical agents in war.
---
# Question Paper

# Q62

Ff 137 + 276 = 435 how much is 731

(A) 5u4
(B) 1403
(C) 1623
(D) 1513

# Q63

5 skilled workers can build a wall in 20 days; 8 semi-skilled workers can build a wall in 25 days; 10 unskilled workers can build a wall in 30 days. If a team has 2 skilled, 6 semi-skilled and 5 unskilled workers, how long will it take to build the wall?

(A) 20 days
(B) 18 days
(C) 16 days
(D) 15 days

# Q64

Given digits 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 4, 4, 4, 4 how many distinct 4 digit numbers greater than 3000 can be formed?

(A) 50
(B) 51
(C) 52
(D) 54

# Q65

Hari (H), Gita (G), Irfan (I) and Saira (S) are siblings (i.e brothers and sisters). All were born on 1st January. The age difference between any two successive siblings (that is born one after another) is less than 3 years. Given the following facts:

- Hari's age + Gita's age > Irfan's age + Saira's age.
- The age difference between Gita and Saira is 1 year. However, Gita is not the oldest and Saira is not the youngest.
- There are no twins.

In what order were they born (oldest first)?

(A) HSGI
(B) SCHI
(C) IGSH
(D) IHSG
END OF THE QUESTION PAPER
---
20i0                          F( "
      Space for Rough Work
                            1724
---
2410
      Space for Rough Work
Ec                          M
---
z010
      Space for Rough Work
                            1'34
---
Space for Rough Work
---
20i0
      Space for Rough Work
                            MA
---
Space for Rough Work
---
2010                        EC
      Space for Rough Work
  EC                        21,3
---
   2010                           EC
         Space for Rough Work
#
                               34/4