# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-1

# Q1-Q.5 carry one mark each:

# Q.1

The strategies that the company __________ to sell its products __________ house-to-house marketing:

- (A) use, includes
- (B) uses, include
- (C) used, includes
- (D) uses

# Q.2

The boat __________ at dawn:

- (A) in
- (B) at
- (C) on
- (D) under

# Q.3

It would take one machine 4 hours to complete a production order and another machine 2 hours to complete the same order: If both machines work simultaneously at their respective constant rates, the time taken to complete the same order is __________ hours:

- (A) 2/3
- (B) 3/4
- (C) 4/3
- (D) 7/3

# Q.4

The books R and S are to be arranged first and second, respectively, on a shelf. Five different books (P, Q, R, S, T) are to be arranged from the right side of the shelf: The number of different orders in which P, Q, and R may be arranged is __________:

- (A) 2
- (B) 12
- (C) 120

# Q.5

When he did not come home, she __________ him lying dead on the roadside somewhere:

- (A) concluded
- (B) looked
- (C) noticed
- (D) pictured
---
# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA; Set-1)

# Q6-Q. 10 carry two marks each

Q.6 Four people are standing in a line facing you. They are Rahul, Mathew, Seema and Lohit. One is an engineer; one is a doctor; one a teacher and another a dancer. You are told that:

1. Mathew is not standing next to Seema.
2. There are two people standing between Lohit and the engineer.
3. Rahul is not a doctor.
4. Seema is turning to her right to speak to the doctor standing next to her.
5. The teacher and the dancer are standing next to the doctor.

Who among them is an engineer?

|Seema|Lohit|
|---|---|
|Rahul|(D) Mathew|
---
# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-1

The bar graph in Panel (a) shows the proportion of male and female illiterates in 2001 and 2011. The proportions of males and females in 2001 and 2011 are given in Panel (b) and Panel (c), respectively: The total population did not change during this period.

The percentage increase in the total number of literates from 2001 to 2011 is:

|Proportion|Illiterates (%)|
|---|---|
|100|60|
|40|40|

Panel (a)

2001

Female: 40%

Male: 50%

Panel (b)

Panel (c)

(A) 30.43 (B) 33.43 (C) 34.43 (D) 35.43

3/5
---
# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-1

# Q.8

Indian history was written by British historians extremely well documented and researched, made subservient to the glory of the Uni story had to serve its purpose: Everything was but not always impartial. Latter-day Indian scholars presented a contrary picture.

From the text above, we can infer that:

- Indian history written by British historians was well documented and not researched but was always biased
- was well documented and researched but was always biased
- was not well documented and researched but was sometimes biased
- was not well documented and researched and was sometimes biased

# Q.9

Two design consultants, P and Q, started budgeted a total of USD 3000 for the consultants. P stopped working when the hour hand moved by 210 degrees. P took two tea breaks of 15 minutes each during her shift; but took no lunch break. Q stopped working when the hour hand moved by 240 degrees.

The market rate for consultants is USD 200 per hour and breaks are not paid. After paying the consultants, the client shall have USD remaining the budget.

(A)
000.00
166.67
300.00
433.33
---
# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-1

# Q.10

Five people P, Q, R, S, and T work in an office till T gets a promotion and moves to the big office next to the garden. P and Q don't like each other but have to share an office with T, who is currently sharing an office with R, the handsome new intern. Given the floor plan (0 = Office; WR = Washroom)

|WR|01|02|03|04| |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|P, Q|Manager|Teller|Teller|T| |
| |Entry|Garden| | | |

|WR|01|02|03|04| |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Q|Manager|Teller|Teller| | |
| |Entry|Garden| | | |

END OF THE QUESTION PAPER
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.1-Q. 25 carry ONE mark each:

# Q.1

Which one of the following functions is analytic over the entire complex plane?

- (A) In(z)
- (B) e1/z
- (C) sin(z)
- (D) cos(z)

# Q.2

The families of curves represented by the solution of the equation

dx/dy = 4y for n = -1 and n = +1, respectively, are

- (A) Parabolas and Circles
- (B) Circles and Hyperbolas
- (C) Hyperbolas and Circles
- (D) Hyperbolas and Parabolas

# Q.3

Let H(z) be the z-transform of a real-valued discrete-time signal h[n]. If P(z) has a total of four zeros, which one of the following plots represents all the zeros of P(z) = H(z)H1 correctly?

|Z-plane|Imaginary axis| |Z-plane|Imaginary axis|
|---|---|---|---|---|
| |0.5| | |0.5|
|Real axis| |-0.5|Real axis| |
| |(D)| | | |

# EC-1

1/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q4

Consider the two-port resistive network shown in the figure. When an excitation of 5 V is applied across Port 1, and Port 2 is shorted, the current through the short circuit at Port 2 is measured to be 1 A (see figure). Now, if an excitation of 5 V is applied to Port 2, and Port 1 is shorted (see (b) in the figure), what is the current through the short circuit at Port 1?

|Port 1|2RQ|Port 2|
|---|---|---|
|5V|RQ|1A|
|RQ|5V| |

(A) 0.5A (B) 1A (C) 2A (D) 2.5A

# Q5

Let Y(s) be the unit-step response of a causal system having a transfer function

G(s) = \(\frac{3}{(s + 1)(s + 3)}\)

that is, Y(s) = G(s) * u(t). The forced response of the system is

Zu(t) = 2e^{-t}u(t) + e^{-3t}u(t)

Zu(t) = u(t)
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.6

For an LTI system; the Bode plot for its gain is illustrated in the figure shown: The number of system poles Np and the number of system zeros Nz in the frequency range 1 Hz < f < 107 Hz is

|Gain (dB)|Gain (dB)|
|---|
|100|~20 dB/dec.|
|8|AB/dec.|
|101 102 103 (in Hz)|101 102 103 (in Hz)|
|40 dB/dec.|40 dB/dec.|

- (A) Np = 5, Nz = 2
- (B) Np = 6, Nz = 3
- (C) Np = 7, Nz = 4
- (D) Np = 4, Nz = 2

# Q.7

A linear Hamming code is used to map 4-bit messages to 7-bit codewords. The encoder message 0011 is mapped to the codeword 0000111 and the mapping is linear: If the message 0001 is 1100110, then the message 0010 is mapped to

- (A) 0010011
- (B) 1100001
- (C) 1111000
- (D) 111111

3/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

Q.8 Which one of the following options describes correctly the equilibrium band diagram at T-300 K of a Silicon p-n junction shown in the figure?

|pt+|(B)|
|---|---|
|EF|Ec|

4/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

Q.9 The correct circuit representation of the structure shown in the figure is

|B|B|
|---|---|
|B|B|

5/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.10

The figure shows the high-frequency C-V curve of a MOS capacitor (at T = 300 K) with represented, respectively, by the points Dns = 0 V and no oxide charges. The flat-L and, inversion, and accumulation conditions are:

- (A) P, Q, R
- (B) Q, R, P
- (C) R, P, Q
- (D) P, Q

# What is the electric flux density of Q?

through the matter-cylinder of height H (as shown in the figure) due to an infinitely long line charge along the axis of the cylinder with a charge:

|H|HQ|80|
|---|---|---|
|(B)|HQ|4H|
|480| |Qe0|
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.12

In the table shown, List I and List II, respectively, contain terms appearing on the left-hand side and the right-hand side of Maxwell's equations (in their standard form). Match the left-hand side with the corresponding right-hand side.

|List I|List II|
|---|---|
|V . D|VxE|
|VxH|J + dD|
|V . B|OB at|

(A) 1 - P, 2 - R, 3 - Q, 4 - S

(B) 1 - Q, 2 - R, 3 - P, 4 - S

(C) 1 - Q, 2 - S, 3 - P, 4 - R

(D) 1 - R, 2 - Q, 3 - S, 4 - P

# Q.13

A standard CMOS inverter is designed with equal rise and fall times (Bn = Bp): If the width of the pMOS transistor in the inverter is increased, what would be the effect on the LOW noise margin (NML) and the HIGH noise margin (NMH)?

(A) NMz increases and NMH decreases.

(B) NML decreases and NMH increases.

(C) Both NML and NMH increase.

(D) No change in the noise margins.

# Q.14

In the circuit shown, what are the values for EN = 0 and EN = 1, respectively?

Vdd

EN

0 and D

Hi-Z and D

and

Hi-Z and D
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.15

In the circuit shown, A and B are the inputs and F is the output. What is the functionality of the circuit?

- Latch
- XNOR
- SRAM Cell
- XOR

# Q.16

The value of the contour integral

2ij (2+2)" dz evaluated over the unit circle |z| = 1 is

# Q.17

The number of distinct eigenvalues of the matrix

|2|G|3|3|
|---|---|---|---|
| |1| | |
| | |3|3|
| |0| |2|

is equal to

EC-1 8/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.18

If X and Y are random variables such that E[2X + Y] = 0 and E[X + 2Y] = 33, then E[X] + E[Y]

# Q.19

The value of the integral J" sinx dx dy is equal to

# Q.20

Let Z be an exponential random variable with mean. That is, the cumulative distribution function of Z is given by:

Fz(x) = {6 - e^x if x ≥ 0

if x < 0

Then Pr(z > 2 | z > 1), rounded off to two decimal places, is equal to

# Q.21

seconds. Its fundamental time period, in seconds, is 2n t) + 4cos Zt + % where t is in

Consider the signal f(t) = 1 + 2 cos(nt) + 3 sin

# Q.22

The baseband signal m(t) shown in the figure is phase-modulated to generate the PM signal o(t) = cos(2πfct + km(t)): The time t on the X-axis in the figure is in milliseconds. If the carrier frequency is fc to the maximum instantaneous frequency (in kHz) is (rounded off to 2 decimal places) 50 kHz and k = 101, then the ratio of the minimum instantaneous frequency (in kHz) is

(in ms)

# EC-1

9/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q23

Radiation resistance of a small dipole cUITE en the percentage change in the radiation resistance, rounded off to two decimal places, is %.

# Q24

In the circuit shown; Vs is a square wave of 8 V and -10 V, respectively: Assume the period T with maximum and minimum values. The diode is ideal and R1 Rz 50 ohms. The average value of Vi is volts (rounded off to decimal place).

# Q25

In the circuit shown, the clock frequency; the frequency of the signal at Q2 is Hz.

The frequency of the Clk signal is 12 kHz.
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

Q 26 - Q 55 carry TWO marks each

# Q.26

Consider a differentiable function f(x) which one of the following inequalities is the set of real numbers such that f(-1) = 0 and |f'(x)| < 2. Given these conditions, necessarily true for all x ∈ [-2, 2]?

- (A) f(x) < |x + 1|
- (B) f(x) < 2x + 1
- (C) f(x) < |x|
- (D) f(x) < 2|x|

# Q.27

Consider the line integral

the integral being taken in a counterclockwise direction over the closed curve C that forms the boundary of the region R shown in the figure below. The region R is the area enclosed by the union of a 2 X 3 rectangle and a semi-circle of radius 1. The line integral evaluates to

R

- (A) 6 + π/2
- (B) 8 + π
- (C) 12 + π
- (D) 16 + 2π

11/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.28

Consider a six-point decimation-in-time FFT (Fast Fourier Transform) algorithm; for which the signal-flow graph corresponding to X[1] is shown in the figure. Let W6 = exp. In the figure, what should be the values of the coefficients a1, a2, a3 in terms of W0 so that X[1] is obtained correctly?

|(A)|a1 = -1, a2 = W0, a3 = W2|
|---|---|
|(B)|a1 = 1, a2 = W2, a3 = W3|
|(C)|a1 = 1, a2 = W0, a3 = W3|
|(D)|a1 = -1, a2 = W2, a3 = W3|

# Q.29

It is desired to find a three-tap causal filter which gives zero signal as an output to an input of the form

x[n] = c1 exp(jn) + c2 exp(iz2) where c1 and c2 are arbitrary real numbers [1] = 4, h[0] = 1 and h[n] = 0 for n < 0 or n > 2. The desired three-tap filter is given by h[2] = b. If the output is y[n] = 0 for all n, when x[n] is as given above, what are the values of the filter taps a and b?

|x[n]|n = 0|y[n] = 0|
|---|---|---|
| |h[n]|{1, a, b}|

|(A)|a = 1, b = 1|
|---|---|
|(B)|a = 0, b = -1|
|(C)|a = -1, b = 1|
|(D)|a = 0, b = 1|
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.30

In the circuit shown, if v(t) = 2 sin(1000 t) volts, R = 1kΩ and C = 1 pF, then the steady-state current i(t), in milliamperes (mA), is:

i(t) = R * Z

i(t) = sin(1000 t) + cos(1000 t) + 2 sin(1000 t) + 2 cos(1000 t) + 3 sin(1000 t)

# Q.31

Consider a causal second-order system with the transfer function:

G(s) = 1 / (1 + 2s + s²)

with a unit-step R(s) = 1 as an input: Let c(s) be the corresponding output. The time taken by the system output c(t) to reach 94% of its steady-state value lim c(t), rounded off to two decimal places, is:

- (A) 5.25
- (B) 4.50
- (C) 3.89
- (D) 2.81

# Q.32

The block diagram of a system is illustrated in the figure shown, where X(s) is the input and Y(s) is the output. The transfer function H(s) is:

- (A) H(s) = (s³ + s² + 5 + 1) / (s² + 1)
- (B) H(s) = (s² + 1) / (s³ + 2s² + s + 1)
- (C) H(s) = (s + 1) / (s² + s + 1)
- (D) H(s) = (2s² + 1) / (s² + 1)

EC-1 13/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.33

Let the state-space representation of an LTI system be

x(t) = Ax(t) + B u(t),

y(t) = Cx(t) + du(t) where A, B, C are matrices, d is a scalar; u(t) is the input to the system, and y(t) is its output: Let B = [1 0]. Which one of the following options for A and C will ensure that the transfer function of this LTI system is

H(s) = 1 / (s2 + 3s + 2)

|(A)|A = [0 0]|and C = [1 0]|
|---|---|---|
|(B)|A = [-3 0]|and C = [1 0]|
|(C)|A = [0 8 8]|and C = [0 1]|
|(D)|A = [0 0]|and C = [0 1]|

# Q.34

A single bit, equally likely to be 0 and 1, is to be sent across an additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) channel with power spectral density No/2. Binary signaling minimizes the bit-error probability.

Let p1(t), p2(t) for an orthonormal signal set: If we choose p(t) = p1(t) and q(t) = p1(t), we would obtain a certain bit-error probability Pb.

If we keep p(t) = p1(t), but take q(t) = p2(t), for what value of E would we obtain the same bit-error probability Pb?

|(A)| |
|---|---|
|(C)| |
|(D)| |

# Q.35

The quantum efficiency and responsivity (R) at a wavelength λ (in μm) in a p-i-n photodetector are related by

|(A)|R = ηλ|
|---|---|
|(B)|R = 1.24|
|(C)|R = 1.24 × λ|
|(D)|R = 1.24|

EC-1

14/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q36

Two identical copper wires W1 and W2, placed in parallel as shown in the figure, carry currents I and 2I, respectively; in opposite directions. If the two wires are separated by a distance of 4r, then the magnitude of the magnetic field B between the wires at a distance r from W1 is:

|W1|1|
|---|---|
|W2| |
|L0|6ρ0|
|6r|Str|
|Sρ0L|812|
|6r|2tr2|

# Q37

The dispersion equation of a waveguide, which relates the wavenumber k to the frequency is:

k(w) = 1/c √(6z) 63

where the speed of light c = 3 X 108 m/s and @0 is a constant. If the group velocity is 2 X 108 m/s, then the phase velocity is:

- (A) 1.5 x 108 m/s
- (B) 2 X 108 m/s
- (C) 3 X 108 m/s
- (D) 4.5 X 108 m/s

# Q38

In the circuit shown, the breakdown voltage and the maximum current of the Zener diode are 20 V and 60 mA, respectively. The values of R1 and R2 are 200 Ω and 1 kΩ, respectively. What is the range of Vi that will maintain the Zener diode in the on state?

- 22 V to 34 V
- 24 V to 36 V
- 18 V to 24 V
- 20 V to 28 V

EC-1 15/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.39

The state transition diagram for the circuit shown is

|CLK|4 = 1|
|---|---|
|Q = 0|Q = 1|
|A = 1|4 = 0|
|4 = 1|Q = 1|
|4 = 1|A = 0|
|A = 1|Q = 0|
|A = 1|4 = 0|
|Q = 0|Q = 1|
|A = 1|4 = 0|
|Q = 0| |

EC-1 16/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.40

In the circuits shown, the threshold voltage bias, the values of Vout1 and Vout2, respectively, in volts, are:

|3V| | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Vout1|3V|3V|3V| | |
| | |Vout2|3V| | |
|(A)|1.8 and 1.2|2.4 and 2.4|1.8 and 2.4|2.4 and 1.2| |

# Q.41

The RC circuit shown below has a variable resistance R(t) given by the following expression:

R(t) = Ro for 0 < t < T

where Ro = 1 Ω, and C = 1 F. We are also given that T = 3 RoC and the source voltage is Vs = 1 V. If the current at time t = 0 is 4, then the current I(t), in amperes, at time t = T/2 is (rounded off to 2 decimal places):

I(t) = R(t)

f = 0

EC-1

17/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.42

Consider a unity feedback system, as in the figure shown, with an integral compensator and open-loop transfer function

G(s) = K / (s2 + 3s + 2) where K > 0. The positive value of K for which there are exactly two poles of the unity feedback system on the jw axis is equal to (rounded off to two decimal places) _

# Q.43

Consider the homogeneous ordinary differential equation

d2y/dx2 + 3(dy/dx) + 3y = 0, x > 0 with y(x) as a general solution. Given that y(1) = 1 and y(2) = 14, the value of y(1.5), rounded off to two decimal places, is

# Q.44

Let h[n] be a length-7 discrete-time finite impulse response filter; given by

|h[0]|h[1]|h[2]|h[3]|
|---|---|---|---|
|4|3|2|1|
|h[-1]|h[-2]|h[-3]| |
|-3|-2|1| |

and h[n] is zero for |n| ≥ 4. A length-3 finite impulse response approximation g[n] of E(h, g) = ∫ H(ejω) - G(ejω) dω is minimized, where H(ejω) and G(ejω) are the discrete-time Fourier transforms of h[n] and g[n], respectively. For the filter that minimizes E(h, g), the value of 10g[-1] + g[1], rounded off to 2 decimal places, is

EC-1 18/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q45

Let a random process Y(t) be described as Y(t) = h(t) X(t) + Z(t), where X(t) is a white noise process with power spectral density Sx(f) = 5 W/Hz. The filter h(t) has a magnitude response given by [H(f)] equal to 5 for -5 < f < 5, and zero elsewhere. Z(t) is a stationary random process, uncorrelated with X(t), with power spectral density as shown in the figure. The power in Y(t), in watts, is equal to (rounded off to two decimal places).

|Sz(f)|(W/Hz)|
|---|---|
|5|f (Hz)|

# Q.46

A voice signal m(t) is in the frequency range 5 kHz to 15 kHz: The signal is amplitude-modulated to generate an AM signal f(t). This is done by first sampling f(t) at 1.2 times the Nyquist frequency, and then quantizing each sample using a 256-level quantizer. The AM signal f(t) is to be digitized and encoded. The rate, in Megabits per second, of the resulting stream of coded bits is (rounded off to 2 decimal places).

# Q.47

It is transmitted across a channel which adds noise N so that the random variable at the channel output is Y = X + N. The noise is independent of X and is uniformly distributed over the interval [-2, 2]. A random variable X takes values -1 and +1 with probabilities 0.2 and 0.8, respectively. The receiver makes a decision X = -1, if Y < 0; +1, if Y > 0. The minimum probability of error Pr[X + X] is chosen to minimize the probability of error, where the threshold 0 € [-1, 1] is chosen (rounded off to 1 decimal place).
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

Q.48 600 nm laser light source as shown in the A Germanium sample of dimensions 1 cm X 1 cm is illuminated with a 20 mW, the remaining light, one-third of the power that reflects one-fourth of the incident light: From 100 nm of loss-less Silicon dioxide layer; and one-third is absorbed in the Germanium transmitted through the other side of the sample. If the absorption coefficient of Germanium at 600 nm is 3 X 10-4 cm-1 and the bandgap is 0.66 eV, the thickness of the Germanium layer, rounded off to 3 decimal places, is

20 mW, 600 nm

Silicon dioxide 100 nm Germanium

Q.49 In an ideal pn junction with an ideality factor of 1 at T=300 K the magnitude of the reverse-bias voltage required to reach 750 of its reverse saturation current, rounded off to 2 decimal places, is mV.

[k = 1.38 X 10-23 JK-1, h = 6.625 X 10-34 J-s, 1.602 X 10-19 c]

Q.50 Consider a long-channel MOSFET with a channel length 1 um and width 10 um. The device parameters are acceptor concentration NA = 5 X 1016 cm-3, electron mobility μn = 800 cm2/V-s, oxide capacitance/area Cox = 3.45 X 10-7 F/cm2, threshold voltage Vt = 0.7 V. The drain saturation current for a gate voltage of 5 V is (rounded off to two decimal places).

[E0 = 8.854 X 10-14 F/cm; ESi]

Q.51 A rectangular waveguide of width w and height h has cut-off frequencies for TE10 and TE11 modes in the ratio 1: 2. The aspect ratio w/h, rounded off to two decimal places, is
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

Q.52 C=10 pF. The capacitor is initially uncharged at +0, and the diode is assumed to be ideal. The voltage across the capacitor at 3 ns is equal to _____ volts (rounded off to one decimal place).

Vs

VC

-10

# Q.53

In the figure, has the following parameters: A CMOS inverter; designed to have a midpoint voltage V equal to half of Vdd: as shown.

Vdd = 3V

HpCox = 100 μA/V2; |vtp| = 0.9 V for pMOS

The ratio of Vout to Vdd is equal to _____ (rounded off to 3 decimal places).

Vi = Vdd

Vdd

Vin

# EC-1

21/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

# Q.54

Transistors are both equal to 1 V. All the voltages of the pMOS (Vtp) and nMOS (Vtn) in the circuit shown, the threshold VO of the nMOS is:

|HnCox|60 pA/V2|
|---|---|
|HpCox|30 HA|
|Hn and Hp are the carrier mobilities, and| |
|is the oxide capacitance per unit area. Ignoring| |
|the effect of channel length modulation and body bias, the gain of the circuit is| |
|(rounded off to 1 decimal place)| |

Vout / Vin = 22/27
---
# GATE 2019

# EC-1

Q55 In the circuit shown; Vi = 0 and Vz = Vdd ignoring the effect of channel length modulation and the body effect; the value of Iout is mA

|Vdd|WIL-IC|WIL=I0|WIL+0|
|---|---|---|---|
| |Jout| | |
|Vdd|Vi| |CVz|
|WIL-5|WL5| | |
|ImA|W/L-2|WL=| |

23/27

The other relevant parameters are mentioned in
---
|QNo.|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|1|MCQ|GA|B| |
|2|MCQ|GA|B| |
|3|MCQ|GA|C|1|
|4|MCQ|GA|B| |
| |MCQ|GA| | |
|6|MCQ|GA| |2|
| |MCQ|GA|A|2|
|8|MCQ|GA|C|2|
|9|MCQ|GA|B|2|
|10|MCQ|GA| |2|
| |MCQ|EC| | |
|2|MCQ|EC| |1|
|3|MCQ|EC| | |
|4|MCQ|EC|B|1|
|5|MCQ|EC|D ORA|1|
|6|MCQ|EC|B|1|
|7|MCQ|EC|B| |
|8|MCQ|EC|A| |
|9|MCQ|EC|A|1|
|10|MCQ|EC|B| |
|11|MCQ|EC|B|1|
|12|MCQ|EC|B|1|
|13|MCQ|EC|A| |
---
|QNo.|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|14|MCQ|EC|B| |
|15|MCQ|EC|B| |
|16|NAT|EC|-0.0001 to 0.0001|1|
|17|NAT|EC|3 to 3| |
|18|NAT|EC|11t0 11| |
|19|NAT|EC|1.99to 2.01| |
|20|NAT|EC|0.36 to 0.38| |
|21|NAT|EC|11.99to 12.01|1|
|22|NAT|EC|0.74to 0.76|1|
|23|NAT|EC|1.98 to 2.02|1|
|24|NAT|EC|3.1t0-2.9| |
|25|NAT|EC|4t0 4|1|
|26|MCQ|EC|B|2|
|27|MCQ|EC| |2|
|28|MCQ|EC| |2|
|29|MCQ|EC|D|2|
|30|MCQ|EC| |2|
|31|MCQ|EC| |2|
|32|MCQ|EC| |2|
|33|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|34|MCQ|EC|D|2|
|35|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|36|MCQ|EC| |2|
---
|QNo.|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|37|MCQ|EC|D|2|
|38|MCQ|EC|B|2|
|39|MCQ|EC| |2|
|40|MCQ|EC| |2|
|41|NAT|EC|0.23 to 0.27|2|
|42|NAT|EC|5.99 to 6.01|2|
|43|NAT|EC|5.24 to 5.26|2|
|44|NAT|EC|-27.01 to -26.99|2|
|45|NAT|EC|17.40 to 17.60|2|
|46|NAT|EC|11.80 to 11.82|2|
|47|NAT|EC|0.1 to 0.1|2|
|48|NAT|EC|0.230 to 0.232|2|
|49|NAT|EC|34.00 to 38.00|2|
|50|NAT|EC|25.40 to 25.60|2|
|51|NAT|EC|1.71 to 1.75|2|
|52|NAT|EC|3.2 to 3.4|2|
|53|NAT|EC|0.210 to 0.230|2|
|54|NAT|EC|105.0 to -895.0 OR 895.0 to 905.0|2|
|55|NAT|EC|5.9 to 6.1|2|