# 201

# Question Booklet Code A

# ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING

Duration: Three Hours

Maximum Marks: 100

# Read the following instructions carefully:

Do not open the seal of the Question Booklet until you are asked to do so by the invigilator.

If you find that the Question Booklet Code printed at the right hand top corner of this page does not match with the Booklet Code on the ORS, exchange the booklet immediately with new sealed Question Booklet.

Take out the Optical Response Sheet (ORS) from this Question Booklet without breaking the seal.

Write your registration number, your name and name of the examination centre at the specified locations on the right half of the ORS. Also, using HB pencil, darken the appropriate bubble under each digit of your registration number and the letters corresponding to your test paper code (EC).

Write your name and registration number in the space provided at the bottom of this page.

At the specified time, please check all pages and report discrepancy, if any.

This Booklet contains 20 pages including blank pages for rough work.

After opening the seal at the specified time, there are a total of 65 questions carrying 100 marks. All these questions are of objective type.

Questions must be answered on the left hand side of the ORS by darkening the appropriate bubble against the question number: For each question darken the bubble of the correct answer completely. More than one answer bubbled against a question will be treated as an incorrect response.

In case you wish to change an answer, erase the old answer completely.

Questions Q.1 to Q.25 carry 1-mark each; and questions Q.26 to Q.55 carry 2-marks each.

Questions Q.48 to Q.55 are linked answer questions and question pairs (Q.52, Q.53) and (Q.54, Q.55) are common data questions. The answer to the second question of the linked answer questions depends on the answer to the first question of the pair: If the first question in the linked pair is wrongly answered or is unattempted, then the answer to the second question in the pair will not be evaluated.

Questions Q.56 and questions Q.61 to Q.65 belong to General Aptitude (GA). Questions Q.56 to Q.65 carry 2-marks each: The GA questions begin on a fresh page starting from Q.60 which carry 1-mark each.

Unattempted questions will result in zero mark and wrong answers will result in NEGATIVE marks. For Q.1 to Q.25, ¼ mark will be deducted for each wrong answer. For Q.26 to Q.65, ¼ mark will be deducted for each wrong answer.

The question pairs (Q.52, Q.53), (Q.51) and (Q.54, Q.55) are questions with linked answers. There is no negative marking for Q.53 and Q.55.

Calculator is allowed whereas charts, graph sheets or tables are NOT allowed in the examination hall.

Rough work can be done on the question paper itself. Additionally, blank pages are provided at the end of the question paper for rough work.

Name

Registration Number

EC

EC_A

1/20
---
# 2011

# Q.1-0.25 carry one mark each

# Q.1

The modes in a rectangular waveguide are denoted by TEnTM,n where m and n are the eigen numbers along the larger and smaller dimensions of the waveguide respectively: Which one of the following statements is TRUE?

- (A) The TM0 mode of the waveguide does not exist
- (B) The TE0 mode of the waveguide does not exist
- (C) The TM1 and the TE1 modes both exist and have the same cut-off frequencies
- (D) The TM1 and the TM0 modes both exist and have the same cut-off frequencies

# Q.2

The Column-1 lists the attributes and the Column-2 lists the modulation systems. Match the attribute to the modulation system that best meets it:

|Column-1|Column-2|
|---|---|
|Power efficient transmission of signals|Conventional AM|
|Most bandwidth efficient transmission of voice signals|FM|
|Simplest receiver structure|II. VSB|
|Bandwidth efficient transmission of signals with significant dc component|IV. SSB-SC|

- (A) P-IV, Q-II, R-I, S-III
- (B) P-I, Q-IV, R-I, S-III
- (C) P-III, Q-I, R-I, S-IV
- (D) P-II, Q-IV, R-III, S-I

# Q.3

The differential equation *100 d2y/dt2 + 20 dy/dt + y = x(t)* describes a system with an input x(t) and an output y(t) can be represented by the waveform. The system, which is initially relaxed, is excited by a unit step input: The output y(t)

- (A) y(t)
- (B) y(t)
- (C) y(t)
---
# 2011

# Q.4

For the transfer function G(jo) = 5 + jo, the corresponding Nyquist plot for positive frequency has the form

|(A)|jo|
|---|---|
|(B)|jw|
| |j5|
|jo| |
|15| |
|45| |

# Q.5

The trigonometric Fourier series of an even function does not have the

|(A)|dc term|
|---|---|
|(B)|cosine terms|
|(C)|sine terms|
|(D)|odd harmonic terms|

# Q.6

When the output Y in the circuit below is "1" it implies that data has

|(A)|changed from "0" to "1"|
|---|---|
|(B)|changed from "1" to "0"|
|(C)|changed in either direction|
|(D)|not changed|

# Q.7

The logic function implemented by the circuit below is (ground implies a logic "0")

|(A)|F = XNOR(P,Q)|
|---|---|
|(B)|F = OR(P,Q)|
|(C)|F = AND(P,Q)|
|(D)|F = XOR(P,Q)|

EC-A 3/20
---
# 201

# Q.8

The circuit below implements a filter between the input current i and the output voltage Vo: Assume that the opamp is ideal. The filter implemented is a

- (A) low pass filter
- (B) band pass filter
- (C) band stop filter
- (D) high pass filter

# Q.9

A silicon PN junction is forward biased with a constant current at room temperature. When the temperature is increased by 10°C, the forward bias voltage across the PN junction

- (A) increases by 60 mV
- (B) decreases by 60 mV
- (C) increases by 25 mV
- (D) decreases by 25 mV

# Q.10

In the circuit shown below, the Norton equivalent current in amperes with respect to the terminals P and Q is

j309

16 Z0" A 252 -j50Q

150

- (A) 6.4 - j4.8
- (B) 6.56 - j7.87
- (C) 10 + j0
- (D) 16 + j0

# Q.11

In the circuit shown below, the value of Rz such that the power transferred to RL is maximum is

10Ω 10Ω

10Ω 2V IA

- (A) 5Ω
- (B) 10Ω
- (C) 15Ω
- (D) 20Ω

EC-A 4/20
---
# 2014

# Q.12

The value of the integral ∮ (32 + 4 + 42 + 5) dz where c is the circle |z| = 1 is given by

|(A)|0|
|---|---|
|(B)|1/10|
|(C)|4/5|
|(D)| |

# Q.13

A transmission line of characteristic impedance 50 Ω is terminated by a 50 Ω load. When excited by a sinusoidal voltage source at 10 GHz, the phase difference between two points spaced 2 mm apart on the line is found to be 7/4 radians. The phase velocity of the wave along the line is

|(A)|0.8 x 108 m/s|
|---|---|
|(B)|1.2 x 108 m/s|
|(C)|1.6 x 108 m/s|
|(D)|3 x 108 m/s|

# Q.14

Consider the following statements regarding the complex Poynting vector P for the power radiated by a point source in an infinite homogeneous and lossless medium. Re (P) denotes the real part of P, S denotes the surface normal on a spherical surface whose centre is at the point source, and n denotes the unit normal.

Which of the following statements is TRUE?

|(A)|Re (P) remains constant at any radial distance from the source|
|---|---|
|(B)|Re (P) increases with increasing radial distance from the source|
|(C)|∮ Re (P) · dS remains constant at any radial distance from the source|
|(D)|∮ HRe (P) · dS decreases with increasing radial distance from the source|

# Q.15

Quantized into 4 levels. The quantized levels are assumed to be independent and equally probable. An analog signal is band-limited to 4 kHz, sampled at the Nyquist rate and the samples are transmitted. If we transmit two quantized samples per second, the information rate is

|(A)|1 bit/sec|
|---|---|
|(B)|2 bits/sec|
|(C)|3 bits/sec|
|(D)|4 bits/sec|

# Q.16

The root locus plot for a system is given below. The open loop transfer function corresponding to this plot is given by

|(A)|G(s)H(s) = k / s(s + 1)|
|---|---|
|(B)|G(s)H(s) = k / (s + 1)(s + 2)(s + 3)|
|(C)|G(s)H(s) = k / s(s - 1)(s + 2)(s + 3)|
|(D)|G(s)H(s) = k / s(s + 2)(s + 3)(s + 1)|
---
# Q.17

A system is defined by its impulse response h(n) = 2nu(n - 2). The system is

- (A) stable and causal
- (B) causal but not stable
- (C) stable but not causal
- (D) unstable and noncausal

# Q.18

If the unit step response of a network is (1 - e-ar), then its unit impulse response is

- (A) ae-ar
- (B) &nbsp; e-ar
- (C) (1 - a)e-ar
- (D) (1 - a)e-ar

# Q.19

The output Y in the circuit below is always "1" when

- two or more of the inputs P, Q, R are "0"
- two or more of the inputs P, Q, R are "1"
- any odd number of the inputs P, Q, R is "0"
- any odd number of the inputs P, Q, R is "1"

# Q.20

In the circuit shown below, capacitors C1 and C2 are very large and are shorts at the input frequency. Vi is a small signal input. The gain magnitude |Vo/Vi| at 10 Mrad/s is

|maximum|B) minimum|
|---|---|
|unity|zero|
---
# 2011

# Q.21

Drift current in semiconductors depends upon

- (A) only the electric field
- (B) only the carrier concentration gradient
- (D) both the electric field and the carrier concentration gradient

# Q.22

A Zener diode, when used in voltage stabilization circuits, is biased in

- (A) reverse bias region below the breakdown voltage
- reverse breakdown region
- forward bias region
- forward bias constant current mode

# Q.23

The circuit shown below is driven by a sinusoidal input Vi = Vcos(t/RC). The steady state output Vo is

- (A) (V/3) cos(t/RC)
- (B) (V/3) sin(t/RC)
- (C) (V/2) cos(tRC)
- (D) (V/2) sin(t/RC)

# Q.24

Consider a closed surface S surrounding a volume V. If F is the position vector of a point inside S, with n the unit normal on S, the value of the integral

- (A) 3V
- (B) SV
- (C) 10V
- (D) 1SV

# Q.25

The solution of the differential equation dy/dx = ky, Y(0) = € is

- (A) x = ce-ky
- (B) x = key
- (C) y = ce'
- (D) y = ce-kr

EC-A 7/20
---
# 2011

Q: 26 to Q. 55 carry two marks each.

# Q.26

The electric and magnetic fields for a TEM wave of frequency 14 GHz in a homogeneous medium of relative permittivity € and relative permeability / = are given by

E = E0e-280xyiV / m

H = 3e0e-280yiX Alm

be 1201, the relative permittivity &, of the medium and the electric field amplitude E are

Assuming the speed of light in free space to be 3 X 108 m/s, the intrinsic impedance of free space to

|(A)|&#x3B5; = 3, Ep = 1201|
|---|---|
|(B)|&#x3B5; = 3, Ep = 3601|
|(C)|&#x3B5; = 9, Ep = 3601|
|(D)|&#x3B5; = 9, Ep = 1201|

# Q.27

A message signal m(t) = cos 2000πt + 4cos 4000πt modulates the carrier c(t) = cos 20πt where fc = 1 MHz to produce an AM signal. For demodulating the generated AM signal using an envelope detector; the time constant RC of the detector circuit should satisfy

|(A)|0.5 ms &lt; RC &lt; 1 ms|
|---|---|
|(B)|1 μs &lt;&lt; RC &lt; 0.5 ms|
|(C)|RC &lt;&lt; 1 μs|
|(D)|RC &gt;&gt; 0.5 ms|

# Q.28

The block diagram of a system with one input u and two outputs Y1 and Y2 is given below:

U

Y1

Y2

state space model of the above system in terms of the state vector x and the output vector y = [y1 y2]T is

|(A)|x = [-2]x + [1]u; y = [1 2]x|
|---|---|
|(B)|x = [-2]x + [1]u; y = [1 7]x|
|(C)|x = [0 7 -2] 0; y = [1 2]x|
|(D)|x = 2 0; y = [1 2]x + F u; J = 12 x|

# Q.29

the same as the input x(n) with a one unit delay. The transfer function of the second system H2(z) is

Two systems H1(z) and H2(z) are connected in cascade as shown below: The overall output Y(n) is

x(n) H1(z) = 1 - 0.4z-1 H2(z) y(n)

|(A)|z-1(1 - 0.4z-1) (1 - 0.6z-1)|
|---|---|
|(B)|z-1(1 - 0.6z-1)|
|(C)|z-1(1 - 0.4z-1)|
|(D)|zn(1 - 0.6z-1) (1 - 0.4z-1)|
---
# 2011

# Q.30

The content of the accumulator after the execution of the program is

An 8085 assembly language program is given below: Assume that the carry flag is initially unset:

MVI A; O7H
RLC
MOV B,A
RLC
RLC
ADD B
RRC

(A) 8CH                     (B) 64H                     (C) 23H                     (D) ISH

# Q.31

The first six points of the DFT are respectively

The last two points of the 8-point DFT of a real valued sequence are $, 1-j3, 0, 3-j4, 0 and 3+j4.

(A) 0,1-j3                  (B) 0, 1+j3                 (C) 1+j3,5                 (D) 1-j3,5

# Q.32

For the BJT Q in the circuit shown below, 8 = C0 , VBEon 0.7V VcEsat 0.7V The switch is initially closed. At time t=0, the switch is opened. The time at which Q1 leaves the active region is

SV
0.5mA
JSV
SuF
t=0
4.3k0
-10V

(A) 10 ms                   (B) 25 ms                   (C) 50 ms                   (D) 100 ms

# Q.33

In the circuit shown below, the network N is described by the following Y matrix:

Y =    0.1 S     -0.01S
0.01S       0.1S

The voltage gain Vz is

25
100 V                                    N             Vz               100 Q

(A) 1/90                     (B) -1/90                   (C) -1/99                    (D) -III

EC-A                                                                                                                         9/20
---
# 2011

# Q.34

In the circuit shown below, the initial charge on the capacitor is 2.5 mC; with the voltage polarity as indicated: The switch is closed at time t=0. The current i(t) at a time after the switch is closed is

| |(A) i(t) = ISexp(-2x10 t) A|
|---|---|
| |(B) i(t) = Sexp(-2x10 t) A|
| |(C) i(t) = 10exp(-2x10 t) A|
| |(D) i(t) = -Sexp(-2x10 t) A|

# Q.35

The system of equations

x + y + z = 6X + 4y + 6z = 20x + 4y + Az = u
has NO solution for values of A and u given by

(A) A = 6, u = 20(B) A = 6, u = 3 20(C) A ≠ 6, u = 20(D) A + 6, u ≠ 20

# Q.36

A fair dice is tossed two times. The probability that the second toss results in a value that is higher than the first toss is

(A) 2/36(B) 2/6(C) 5/12(D) 1/2

# Q.37

A current sheet J = 10@, Alm lies on the dielectric interface x = 0 between two dielectric media with ε1 = 5, μ1 = 1 in Region-1 (x < 0) and ε2 = 2, μ2 = 2 in Region-2 (x > 0). If the magnetic field in Region-1 at x = 0- is H1 = 3u + 306, Alm, the magnetic field in Region-2 at x = 0 is

x > 0 (Region-2): ε2 = 2, μ2 = 2x < 0 (Region-1): ε1 = 5, μ1 = 1
(A) H2 = 1.5i + 30u - 10u, Alm

(B) H1 = 3u + 306, -10z, Alm

(C) H2 = 1.5u + 40u, Alm

(D) H2 = 3u + 306 + 10u, Alm
---
# 2011

# Q.38

A transmission line of characteristic impedance S0 0 is terminated in a load impedance ZL: The voltage maxima in the line is observed at a VSWR of the line is measured as 5 and the first of the distance of 1/4 from the load. The value of Z is

- (A) 10 Ω
- (B) 250 Ω
- (C) (19.23 + j46.15) Ω
- (D) (19.23 - j46.15) Ω

# Q.39

X(t) is a stationary random process with autocorrelation function Rx (c) = exp(-Tt'). This process is passed through the system shown below. The power spectral density of the output process Y(t) is

H(f) = j2πf

- (A) (4π²f² + 1)exp(-Tf')
- (B) (4π²f² - 1)exp(-Tf²)
- (C) (4π²f² + 1)exp(-Tf)
- (D) (4π²f² - 1)exp(-Tf)

# Q.40

as shown in the figure below. Assume all states of the counter to be unset initially. The waveform The output of a 3-stage Johnson (twisted-ring) counter is fed to a digital-to-analog (DA) converter which represents the DA converter Output Vo is

Vref

DIA Converter

Vo

D2 D1 D0

Q1 Q0

Clock Johnson Counter

EC-A

H/ZO
---
# 2011

# Q.41

Two D flip-flops are connected as a synchronous counter that goes through the following QB QA sequence 00 +11-01-10-00--

The connections to the inputs DA and DB are

- (A) Da = QB, DB = QA
- (B) D^ = Q4, Ds = QB
- (C) Da = (QA QB + QA QB), DB = QA
- (D) DA = (QA Q8 + QAC Q8), DB = QB

# Q.42

In the circuit shown below, for the MOS transistors, J,Cox = 10O AA/2 and the threshold voltage Vi = 1 V. The voltage Vx at the source of the upper transistor is

- (A) 1 V
- (B) 2 V
- (C) 3 V
- (D) 3.67 V

# Q.43

An input x(t) = exp(-Zt)u(t) + &(t-6) is applied to an LTI system with impulse response h(t) = u(t). The output is

- (A) [1 - exp(-2t)] u(t) + u(t+6)
- (B) [1 - exp(-2t)] u(t) + u(t-6)
- (C) 0.5[1 - exp(-2t)] u(t) + u(t+6)
- (D) 0.5[1 - exp(-2t)] u(t) + u(t-6)

# Q.44

saturation current Ico = 0.6 uA. This BJT is connected in the common emitter mode and operated in the active region with a base drive current IB = 20 LA. The collector current Ic for this mode of operation is

- (A) 0.98 mA
- (B) 0.99 mA
- (C) 1.0 mA
- (D) 1.01 mA

# Q.45

If F(s) = LIf(t)] == 2(s +1) / (s^2 + 4s + 7) then the initial and final values of f(t) are respectively

- (A) 0, 2
- (B) 2, 0
- (C) 0, 2/7
- (D) 2/7, 0
---
# 2011

# Q.46

In the circuit shown below, the current I is equal to

|j49|~j4p|
|---|---|
|14209V|14209V|

- (A) 1.4209 A
- (B) 2.020 A
- (C) 2.8208 A
- (D) 3.2209 A

# Q.47

A numerical solution of the equation f(x) = x + √(x - 3) = 0 can be obtained using Newton-Raphson method. If the starting value is x = 2 for the iteration, the value of x that is to be used in the next step is

- (A) 0.306
- (B) 0.739
- (C) 1.694
- (D) 2.306

EC-A 13/20
---
# Common Data Questions

# Common Data for Questions 48 and 49:

thickness (tch) of 10 /m is available for conduction: The built-in voltage of the gate Pt N junction. The channel resistance of an N-channel JFET shown in the figure below is 600 S when the full channel is -] V. When the gate to source voltage (Vos) is 0 V, the channel is depleted by Vbi the built-in voltage and hence the thickness available for conduction is only 8 um on each side due to

Gate

Vcs

Source

N

Drain

tch

Pt

|Q.48|The channel resistance when VGs = 0 V is|(A) 480 Ω|(B) 600 Ω|(C) 750 Ω|(D) 1000 Ω|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Q49|The channel resistance when VGs = -3 V is|(A) 360 Ω|(B) 917 Ω|(C) 1000 Ω|(D) 3000 Ω|

# Common Data for Questions 50 and 51:

The input-output transfer function of plant H(s) = s(s+10)/100. The plant is placed in unity negative feedback configuration as shown in the figure below.

H(s) = s(s+10)/100

plant

|Q50|The signal flow graph that DOES NOT model the plant transfer function H(s) is|(A)|(B)| | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| |Ils|Ils|I/s|100| | | | | |
| |Ils|Ils|Ils|100| | | | | |
| |-10|-10|~20|100| | | | | |
| |Ils|Ils|Ms|100| | | | | |
| |-20| | | | | | | | |

Q51
The gain margin of the system under closed loop unity negative feedback is
(A) 0 dB
(B) 20 dB
(C) 26 dB
(D) 46 dB
---
# 2011

# Linked Answer Questions

Statement for Linked Answer Questions 52 and 53:

Four-phase and an eight-phase signal constellation are shown in the figure below.

1
1
# Q.52

For the constraint that the minimum distance between pairs of signal points be d for both constellations, the radii r1 and r2 of the circles are

- (A) r = 0.707d, r2 = 2.782d
- (B) r = 0.707d, r2 = 1.932d
- (C) r = 0.707d, r2 = 1.545d
- (D) r = 0.707d, r2 = 1.307d

# Q.53

Signal energy required by the 8-PSK signal to achieve the same error probability as the 4-PSK. Assuming high SNR and that all signals are equally probable, the additional average transmitted signal is

- (A) 11.90 dB
- (B) 8.73 dB
- (C) 6.79 dB
- (D) 5.33 dB

Statement for Linked Answer Questions 54 and 55:

In the circuit shown below, assume that the voltage drop across a forward biased diode is 0.7 V. The thermal voltage V = kT/q = 25 mV. The small signal input Vi = Vp cos(ωt) where Vp = 100 mV.

9900
12.7 V
Ipc + Iac DC + Vac

# Q.54

The bias current Ipc through the diodes is

- (A) 1 mA
- (B) 1.28 mA
- (C) 1.5 mA
- (D) 2 mA

# Q.55

The ac output voltage Vac is

- (A) 0.25 cos(ωt) mV
- (B) 1 cos(ωt) mV
- (C) 2 cos(ωt) mV
- (D) 22 cos(ωt) mV

EC-A 15/20
---
# General Aptitude (GA) Questions

# Q 56 - Q. 60 carry one mark each

Q56: Pair that best expresses the relation in the original pair:

Gladiator - Arena

|(A)|dancer|stage|
|---|---|---|
|(B)|commuter|train|
|(C)|teacher|classroom|
|(D)|lawyer|courtroom|

Q57: There are two candidates P and Q in an election. During the campaign, 40% of the voters promised to vote for P, and rest for Q. However, 259 of the voters went back on their promise to vote for Q and instead voted for P. Suppose, P lost by 2 votes, then what was the total number of voters?

|(A)|100|
|---|---|
|(B)|110|
|(C)|90|
|(D)|95|

Q58: Choose the most appropriate word from the options given below to complete the following sentence:

It was her view that the country's problems had been __________ by foreign technocrats, so that to invite them to come back would be counter-productive:

|(A)|identified|
|---|---|
|(B)|ascertained|
|(C)|exacerbated|
|(D)|analysed|

Q59: Choose the word from the options given below that is most nearly opposite in meaning to the given word: Frequency

|(A)|periodicity|rarity|
|---|---|---|
|(B)|gradualness|persistency|

Q60: Choose the most appropriate word from the options given below to complete the following sentence:

Under ethical guidelines recently adopted by the Indian Medical Association, human genes are to be manipulated only to correct diseases for which treatments are __________ unsatisfactory.

|(A)|similar|
|---|---|
|(B)|most|
|(C)|uncommon|
|(D)|available|

# Q. 61 to Q. 65 carry two marks each:

Q61: The horse has played a little known but very important role in the field of medicine. Horses were injected with toxins of diseases until their blood built up immunities. Then a serum was made from their blood: Serums to fight with diphtheria and tetanus were developed this way. It can be inferred from the passage, that horses were:

|(A)|given immunity to diseases|
|---|---|
|(B)|generally quite immune to diseases|
|(C)|given medicines to fight toxins|
|(D)|given diphtheria and tetanus serums|
---
# 201

# Q.62

The fuel consumed by a motorcycle during a journey while traveling at various speeds is indicated in the graph below.

| |Speed (kilometres per hour)| | | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | |15| |30|45|60|75|90|
|Distance (kilometres)| | | | | |75|40|10|
|Average speed| |15|15| |45|75|10| |

From the given data, we can conclude that the fuel consumed per kilometre was least during the lap (A) P (B) (C) R

# Q.63

Three friends, R, S and T shared toffee from a bowl. R took 1/3rd of the toffees, but returned four to the bowl. S took 1/4th of what was left but returned three toffees to the bowl. T took half of the remainder. If the bowl had 17 toffees left; how many toffees were originally there in the bowl?

(A) 38 (B) 31 (C) 48 (D) 41

# Q.64

Given that f(q) = |y|, and q is any non-zero real number, the value of | f(q) - f(-9) | is

(A) 0 (B) -1 (C) 1 (D) 2

# Q.65

The sum of n terms of the series 4 + 44 + 444 + ...

(A) (4/81) [10n + 9n - 1] (B) (4/81) [10n - 9n - 1] (C) (4/81) [10n + 1 - 9n] (D) (4/81) [10n - 9n - 10]

# END OF THE QUESTION PAPER

EC_A 17/20