# GATE 2020

# IIT Delhi

# Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering 2020

# Organising Institute

- Home
- Information Brochure
- GATE International
- Pre Examination
- Important Dates
- FAQs
- Contact Us

# EC: Electronics and Communication Engg.

# GA - General Aptitude

Q1 - Q5 carry one mark each.

# Q.No. 1

The untimely loss of life is a cause of serious global concern as thousands of people get killed in accidents every year while many other die from diseases like cardio vascular disease, cancer, etc.

- (A)
- (B) from, of
- (C) during, from
- (D) from, from

# Q.No. 2

He was not only accused of theft but also of conspiracy.

- (A)
- (B) but also
- (C) but even
- (D) rather than

# Q.No. 3

Select the word that fits the analogy: Explicit: Implicit Express:

- (A) Impress
- (B) Repress
- (C) Compress
- (D) Suppress

# Q.No. 4

The Canadian constitution requires that equal importance be given to English and French. Last year, Air Canada lost a lawsuit and had to pay a six-figure fine to a French-speaking couple after they filed complaints about formal in-flight announcements in English lasting 15 seconds, opposed to informal 5 second messages in French. The French-speaking couple were upset at:

- (A) the in-flight announcements being made in English.
- (B) the English announcements being clearer than the French ones.
- (C) the English announcements being longer than the French ones.
- (D) equal importance being given to English and French.

# Q.No. 5

A superadditive function f satisfies the following property: f(x + xz) > f(x) + f(xz). Which of the following functions is a superadditive function for X?

- (A)
- (B)
- (C)
- (D)
---
# Q6 - Q10 carry two marks each.

# Q.No. 6

The global financial crisis in 2008 is considered to be the most serious world-wide financial crisis, which started with the sub-prime lending crisis in USA in 2007. The sub-prime lending crisis led to the banking crisis in 2008 with the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008. The sub-prime lending refers to the provision of loans to those borrowers who may have difficulties in repaying loans, and it arises because of excess liquidity following the East Asian crisis.

Which one of the following sequences shows the correct precedence as per the given passage?

|(A)|East Asian crisis - subprime lending crisis - banking crisis - global financial crisis|
|---|---|
|(B)|Subprime lending crisis - global financial crisis - banking crisis - East Asian crisis|
|(C)|Banking crisis - subprime lending crisis - global financial crisis - East Asian crisis|
|(D)|Global financial crisis - East Asian crisis - banking crisis - subprime lending crisis|

# Q.No. 7

It is quarter past three in your watch: The angle between the hour hand and the minute hand

|(A)| |
|---|---|
|(B)| |
|(C)| |
|(D)| |

# Q.No. 8

A circle with centre O is shown in the figure. A rectangle PQRS of maximum possible area is inscribed in the circle. If the radius of the circle is a, then the area of the shaded portion

|(A)|Ta| |
|---|---|---|
|(B)|Ta|2a|
|(C)|Ta|z - 202|
|(D)|Ta|302|

# Q.No. 9

@, b, € are real numbers. The quadratic equation ax2 + bx + € = 0 has equal roots, which is B, then

|(A)|B = b/a|
|---|---|
|(B)|B2 = ac|
|(C)|B = bc / (2a2)|
|(D)|b2 = 4ac|

# Q.No. 10
---
# The following figure shows the data of students enrolled in 5 years (2014 to 2018) for two schools

During this period, the ratio of the average number of the students enrolled in school P to the average of the difference of the number of students enrolled in schools P and Q is:

|Year|School P|School Q|
|---|---|---|
|2014|9|1|
|2015| | |
|2016| | |
|2017| | |
|2018| | |

# EC: Electronics and Communication Engg.

# Q1 - Q25 carry one mark each.

# Q.No. 1

Vp, Vo are six vectors in Rn which one of the following statements is FALSE?

- (A) It is not necessary that these vectors span
- (B) These vectors are not linearly independent
- (C) Any four of these vectors form a basis for
- (D) If Vy0, Vz, Vs, V6 spans Rn then it forms a basis for Rn

# Q.No. 2

For a vector field A, which one of the following is FALSE?

- (A) A is solenoidal
- (B) A is another vector field
- (C) A is irrotational
- (D) Vx A = V(v . A)

# Q.No. 3

The partial derivative of the function f(x, y, z) = e-cosy + xze-1/(1+y2) with respect to x at the point (1,0,e) is:

- (A)
- (B)
- (C)
- (D)

# Q.No. 4

The general solution of dy/dt2 + 9y = 0 is:

- (A) y = C1 e234 C2 e
- (B) y = (C1 + Cx) e
---
# Q.No. 5

The output y [n] of a discrete-time system for an input x[n]

y[n] &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; max |x[k]|

The unit impulse response of the system is

- (A) for all n
- (B) for all n
- (C) unit step signal u[n]
- (D) unit impulse signal &delta;[n]

# Q.No. 6

A single crystal intrinsic semiconductor is at a temperature of 300 K with effective density of states for holes twice that of electrons. The thermal voltage is 26 mV. The intrinsic Fermi level is shifted from mid-bandgap energy level by

- (A) 18.02 me
- (B) 9.01 me
- (C) 15.45 me
- (D) 6.90 me

# Q.No. 7

Consider the recombination process via bulk traps forward biased pn homojunction diode. The maximum recombination rate is Umax: If the electron and the hole capture cross-sections are equal, which one of the following is FALSE?

- (A) With all other parameters unchanged, Umax decreases if the intrinsic carrier density is reduced
- (B) Umax occurs at the edges of the depletion region in the device
- (C) Umax depends exponentially on the applied bias
- (D) With all other parameters unchanged, Umax increases if the thermal velocity of the carriers increases

# Q.No. 8

The components in the circuit shown below are ideal. If the op-amp is in positive feedback and the input voltage Vi is a sine wave of amplitude V, the output voltage Vo is

1 V &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1 kΩ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5 V

Vi &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ~1 V

- (A) non-inverted sine wave of 2 V amplitude
- (B) an inverted sine wave of |V| amplitude
- (C) a square wave of 5 V amplitude
- (D) constant of either

# Q.No. 9
---
In the circuit shown below the Thevenin voltage VT is 20 W

1A 10 2A 20 Vt

# Q.No. 10

The figure below shows a multiplexer where Sq and S0 are the select lines, I0 to I3 are the input data lines, EN is the enable line; and F (P, Q, R) is the output.

F is

EN
I0
I1
I2
I3
S1
S0

- (A) PQ + QR
- (B) P + QR
- (C) PQR + PQ
- (D) 0 + PR

# Q.No. 11

The pole-zero map of a rational function G(S) is shown below. When the closed contour is mapped into the G(s)-plane, then the mapping encircles

- (A) the origin of the G(S)-plane once in the counter-clockwise direction
- (B) the origin of the G(S)-plane once in the clockwise direction
- (C) the point 1 + j0 of the G(s)-plane once in the counter-clockwise direction
- (D) the point -1 + j0 of the G(S)-plane once in the clockwise direction
---
# Q.No. 12

A digital communication system transmits a block of N bits. The probability of error in decoding a bit is &. The error event of each bit is independent of the error events of the other bits. The received block is declared erroneous if at least one of its bits is decoded wrongly. The probability that the received block is erroneous is

- (A) N (1 - 0)
- (B)
- (C)
- (D) 1 - (1 -

# Q.No. 13

The impedances Z = jX for all X in the range 0, map to the Smith chart

- (A) a circle of radius with centre at (0, 0)
- (B) a point at the centre of the chart
- (C) a line passing through the centre of the chart
- (D) a circle of radius 0.5 with centre at (0.5, 0)

# Q.No. 14

Which one of the following pole-zero plots corresponds to the transfer function of an LTI system characterized by the input-output difference equation given below?

y[n] = (-1)k x[n - k]

- (A) 3rd order pole
- (B) 3rd order pole
- (C)
---
# Q.No. 15

The given circuit. The two-port network has the impedance matrix [Z] = [40 60; 120]. The value of ZL for which maximum power is transferred to the load is 10 Ω.

120 V

Vi [Z] Vz

# Q.No. 16

The current in the RL-circuit shown below is i(t) = 10 cos(5t + T/4) A. The value of the inductor (rounded off to two decimal places) is 200 cos(5t).

# Q.No. 17
---
In the circuit shown below; all the components are ideal and the input voltage sinusoidal The magnitude of the steady-state output Vo (rounded off to two decimal places) is

C1 = 0.1 pF
230 V (rms)
D1
Cz = 0.1 pF
Vo
# Q.No. 18

In the circuit shown below. all the components are ideal: If Vi is +2 V; the current sourced by the Op-amp is mA.

|5 V|1 kΩ|
|---|---|
|N| |
|-5 V|kΩ|

# Q.No. 19

an 8085 microprocessor; the number of address lines required to access a 16 K byte memory bank is

# Q.No. 20

A 10-bit DIA converter is calibrated over the full range from 0 to 10 V. If the input to the DIA converter is 134 (in hex) the output (rounded off to three decimal places) is

# Q.No. 21

transmission line of length 327/4 and having characteristic impedance of 50 Ω is terminated with load of 400 Ω. The impedance (rounded off to two decimal places) seen at the input end of the transmission line is

# Q.No. 22

binary random variable takes the value +2 72. The probability P(X = +2) = &. The value of & (rounded off to one decimal place) for which the entropy of X is maximum; is

# Q.No. 23

The Toop transfer function of a negative feedback system is

G(s)H(s) = s(s + 2)(s + 8) K(s + 11)

The value of K for which the system is marginally stable is

# Q.No. 24
---
The random variable

Y = J W(t)o(t)dt, where $(t) = {6; otherwise 5 <t <7 and W(t) is a real white Gaussian noise process with two-sided power spectral density Sw(f) = 3 WIHz. for all f. The variance of Y is

# Q.No. 25

The two sides of a fair coin are labelled as 0 and 1. The coin is tossed two times independently. Let M and N denote the labels corresponding to the outcomes of those tosses. For a random variable X, defined as X = min(M,N), the expected value E(X) (rounded off to two decimal places) is

# Q.No. 26

Consider the following system of linear equations:

1 + 2x2 = b

2x + 4x2 = b1

3x1 + 7x2 = b3

3x1 + 9x2 = b4

Which one of the following conditions ensures that a solution exists for the above system?

- (A) b = 2b and 6b 3b + b = 0
- (B) b1 = 2b and 6b 3b + b = 0
- (C) b = 2b and 3b 6b + b5
- (D) b1 = 2b and 3b 6b + b =

# Q.No. 27

Which one of the following options contains two solutions of the differential equation dy/dx = (y - 1)x?

- (A) In|y - 1| = 0.5x^2 + C and y =
- (B) In|y - 1| = 2x^2 + C and y =
- (C) In|y - 1| = 0.5x^2 + C and y =
- (D) In|y - 1| = 2x^2 + C and y =

# Q.No. 28

The current in the given network is

1202 - 905

Z = (80 - j35)

1202 - 30" V

- (A)
- (B) 2 38 96 370
- (C) 2 38/143.630
- (D) 2 38/-23 630
---
# Q.No. 29

Finite duration discrete-time signal *x[n] obtained by sampling the continuous-time signal x(t) cos(20Ont) sampling instants t = n/400, n = 0, 1, ... 7. The &-point discrete Fourier transform (DFT) of x[n]* is defined as:

*X[k] = Σ x[n] e-j(2πkn/N)* for k = 0, 1, ..., N-1, n = 0

Which one of the following statements is TRUE?

- (A) All |X[k]| are non-zero.
- (B) Only |X[4]| is non-zero.
- (C) Only |X[2]| and |X[6]| are non-zero.
- (D) Only |X[3]| and |X[5]| are non-zero.

# Q.No. 30

For the given circuit; which one of the following is the correct state equation?

0.5 H
0.25 F
- (A) a[i] = [-2 4] x[i] + [4 G] x[i]
- (B) a[i] = [-2 4] x[i] + [4 4] x[i]
- (C) a[T] = [4 2 -4] x[i] + [4 4] x[i]
- (D)

# Q.No. 31

One-sided abrupt pn junction diode has a depletion capacitance *Cp of 50 pF at reverse bias of 0.2 V. The plot of 1/C0 versus the applied voltage V for this diode is a straight line as shown in the figure below: The slope of the plot is X x 1020 F-2V-1.*

- (A)
- (B)
- (C)
- (D)
---
# Q.No. 32

The band diagram of a p-type semiconductor with a band-gap of 1 eV is shown. Using this semiconductor; MOS capacitor having Vrh of -0.16 V, Cox 100 nF /cm2 and a metal work function of 3.87 eV is fabricated. There is no charge within the oxide: If the voltage across the capacitor is VrH: the magnitude of depletion charge per unit area (in C/cm2) is

|Vacuum level|4 eV|
|---|---|
|Ec|0.5 eV|
|Ei|0.2 eV|
|EFs| |
|Ev| |

- (A) 70 X
- (B) 0.52 X
- (C)
- (D) 0.93 X10

# Q.No. 33

The base of an npn BJT T1 has a linear doping profile NB' as shown below. The base of another npn BJT T2 has a uniform doping NB of 1017 cm-3. All other parameters are identical for both the devices: Assuming that the hole density profile is the same as that of doping; the common-emitter current gain of T2 is

|NB(x)|1017 (cm)|NB(x)|1014 (cm3)|
|---|---|---|---|
|Emitter|Base|Collector| |

- (A) approximately 2.0 times that of T1
- (B) approximately 0.3 times that of T1
- (C) approximately 2.5 times that of T1
- (D) approximately 0.7 times that of T1

# Q.No. 34

pn junction solar cell of area 1.0 cm2 illuminated uniformly with 100 mW cm-2, has the following parameters: Efficiency = 15%, open circuit voltage 0.7 V, fill factor = 0.8, and thickness 200 um. The charge of an electron is 1.6 X 10-19 C. The average optical generation rate (in cm-3s-1) is

- (A) 0.84 X 1019
- (B) 557 X 1019
- (C) 04 X 1019
- (D)
---
# Q.No. 35

For the BJT in the amplifier shown below; VBE = 0.7 V, kT/q = 26 mV. Assume that BJT output resistance (ro) is very high and the base current is negligible: The capacitors are also assumed to be short circuited at signal frequencies. The input Vi is direct coupled: The low frequency voltage gain Vo/Vi of the amplifier is

|Vcc|10 V| |
|---|---|---|
|Rc|10 kΩ| |
|HF|RL|10 kΩ|
|RE|20 kΩ| |
|CE|100 pF| |
|VEF|-10| |

(A) 128 21

(B) 178 8

(C) (D)

# Q.No. 36

An enhancement MOSFET of threshold voltage 3 V is being used in the sample and hold circuit given below. Assume that the substrate of the MOS device is connected to -10 V. If the input voltage Vi lies between +10 V the minimum and the maximum values of VG required for proper sampling and holding respectively; are

(A) and -3V

(B) 10 V and -10 V

(C) 13 V and -7 V

(D) 10 V and -13 V

# Q.No. 37
---
Using the incremental low frequency small-signal model of the MOS device, the Norton equivalent resistance of the following circuit is

|VDD|gm, rds|
|---|---|
|(A)|+R + gmrdsk|
|(B)|Tas + R|
| |1 + gmTds|
|(C)|Tds + Ym|
| |1 + R|
|(D)| |

Q.No. 38 P; Q and R are the decimal integers corresponding to the 4-bit binary number 1100 considered in signed magnitude; 1's complement; and 2's complement representations, respectively. The 6-bit 2's complement representation (P + Q + R) is

|(A)| |
|---|---|
|(B)| |
|(C)| |
|(D)| |

Q.No. 39 The state diagram of a sequence detector is shown below. State S0 is the initial state of the sequence detector: If the output is 1, then

| | | |0/0|S2|
|---|---|---|---|---|
| |0/0|1/0|0/0| |
| | |1/0| | |
| |1/0| | |0/1|

(A) the sequence 01010 is detected.

(B) the sequence 01014 is detected.

(C) the sequence 01110 is detected.

(D) the sequence 001 is detected.

Q.No. 40
---
          The characteristic equation of a system is
                                                                                        3s? +(K+2)8+3K=0 _
          In the root locus plot for the given system;                                                                             varies from                          co , the
          break-away or break-in point(s) lie within
(A)        -1,0)_
(B)
(C)         -3_         ~2).
(D)                       53)
Q.No. 41  The components in the circuit given below are ideal: If R = 2 kS2 and € = | uF
          the -3 dB cut-Off frequency of the circuit in Hz is
                                     Vi (jo)
                                                                                                                                                  Vo (jw)
(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
Q.No. 42  For          the           modulated                       signal x(t)                         m(t) cos(2ifct)                     the          message         signal
          m(t) = 4 cos(100Ont) and the carrier frequency fc is                                                                          MHz The signal x(t) is
          passed through a demodulator, as shown in the figure below. The output y(t)
          the demodulator is
                                                                                               Ideal LPF with cut-off 510 Hz                                      y(t)
                                                                                                           -510               510         f (Hz)
                                           cos 2n(fc + 40)t)
(A)       cos(460nt )
(B)       cos(920nt)_
(C)       cos(100utt)_
(D)       cos(540nt )

Q.No. 43
---
For an infinitesimally small dipole in free space; the electric field Ee in the far field is proportional to (e-jkr/r) sin θ, where k = 2π/λ. An infinitesimally small electric dipole (l < 2) is placed at a distance h (h > 0) above an infinite ideal conducting plane as shown in the figure. The minimum value of h, for which one of the maxima in the far field radiation pattern occurs at θ = 60°, is

(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
Q.No. 44 In the voltage regulator shown below: Vi is the unregulated input at 15 V. Assume VBE = 0.7 V and the base current is negligible for both the BJTs. If the regulated output Vo is 9 V, the value of Rz is

|Vi = 15 V|Vo = 9 V|
|---|---|
|Rs = 1 kΩ|Ru = 1 kΩ|
|Vz = 3.3 V| |

Q.No. 45 The magnetic field of a uniform plane wave in vacuum is given by

H(x,y,z,t) = (ax + 2wy + bz) cos(ωt + 3x - y - 2). The value of b is
---
# Q.No. 46

For a 2-port network consisting of an ideal lossless transformer; the parameter Sz (rounded off to two decimal places) for a reference impedance of 10 is

2 Port Network

2 Port

# Q.No. 47

Spm(t) and SFm(t) as defined below; are the phase modulated and the frequency modulated waveforms, respectively, corresponding to the message signal m(t) shown in the figure.

Spm(t) = Cos(100πt + Kp m(t))

SFm(t) = cos(100πt + Kf ∫ m(c)dc)

where Kp is the phase deviation constant in radians/volt and Kf is the frequency deviation constant in radians/second/volt: If the highest instantaneous frequencies of Spm(t) and SFm(t) are the same, then the value of the ratio Kp/Kf is

m(t)

10

t (sec)

# Q.No. 48

In a digital communication system; a symbol $ randomly chosen from the set {S1, S2, S3, S4} is transmitted. It is given that S1 = -3, S2 = -1, S3 = +1 and S4 = +2. The received symbol is Y = S + W, where W is a zero-mean unit-variance Gaussian random variable and is independent of S. Pi is the conditional probability of symbol error for the maximum likelihood (ML) decoding when the transmitted symbol $ = Si: The index i for which the conditional symbol error probability Pi is the highest is

# Q.No. 49
---
A system with transfer function G(s) = (s+)s +a) a >0 is subjected to an input 5cos3t. The steady state Output of the system is V1o cos(3t _ 1.892). The value of a is

# Q.No. 50

For the components in the sequential circuit shown below. tpd is the propagation delay, tsctup is the setup time; and thold is the hold time: The maximum clock frequency (rounded off to the nearest integer), at which the given circuit can operate reliably, is _____ MHz

|Flip Flop 1|2 ns|(pd)|2 ns|
|---|---|---|---|
|(pd)|3 ns|sclup|hold =|
|Flip Flop 2|(pd)|8 ns|setup|
| |3 ns| |4 ns|

# Q.No. 51

For the solid $ shown below; the value of JlJ xdxdydz (rounded off to two decimal places) is _____

# Q.No. 52
---
# Current Page Content

X (w) the Fourier transform of x(t) shown below. The value Ix(6)/2 do (rounded off to two decimal places) is

-3 - -1 0 1 2 3 4

# Q.No. 53

The transfer function of a stable discrete-time LTI system is H(z) K (z-0) 2+0.5 where K and 0 are real numbers. The value of & (rounded off to one decimal place) with Ic/ > 1, for which the magnitude response of the system is constant over all frequencies, is

# Q.No. 54

X is a random variable with uniform probability density function in the interval [-2,10]. For Y = 2X - 6, the conditional probability P(Y < 7 | X > 5) (rounded off to three decimal places) is

# Q.No. 55

Consider the following closed loop control system

|R(s)|C(s)|G(s)|Y(s)|
|---|---|---|---|
| |K|s(s+1)| |
| | |s+3| |

If the steady state error for a unit ramp input is 0.1, then the value of K is

Copyright : GATE 2020, IIT Delhi
---
# GATE 2020

# IIT Delhi

# Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering 2020

# Organising Institute

- Home
- Information Brochure
- GATE International
- Pre Examination
- Important Dates
- FAQs
- Contact Us

# Answer Key - EC: Electronics and Communication Engg.

|Q.No.|Session|Que.Type|Sec. Name|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1|4|MCQ|GA|A|1|
|2|4|MCQ|GA|B|1|
|3|4|MCQ|GA|B|1|
|4|4|MCQ|GA|C|1|
|5|4|MCQ|GA|A|1|
|6|4|MCQ|GA|A|2|
|7|4|MCQ|GA|B|2|
|8|4|MCQ|GA|C|2|
|9|4|MCQ|GA|C|2|
|10|4|MCQ|GA|B|2|
|1|4|MCQ|EC|C|1|
|2|4|MCQ|EC|C|1|
|3|4|MCQ|EC|B|1|
|4|4|MCQ|EC|C|1|
|5|4|MCQ|EC|C|1|
|6|4|MCQ|EC|B|1|
|7|4|MCQ|EC|B|1|
|8|4|MCQ|EC|D|1|
|9|4|MCQ|EC|C|1|
|10|4|MCQ|EC|A|1|
|11|4|MCQ|EC|B|1|
|12|4|MCQ|EC|D|1|
|13|4|MCQ|EC|A|1|
|14|4|MCQ|EC|A|1|
|15|4|NAT|EC|48 to 48|1|
|16|4|NAT|EC|2.80 to 2.85|1|
|17|4|NAT|EC|644 to 657|1|
|18|4|NAT|EC|6 to 6|1|
|19|4|NAT|EC|14 to 14|1|
|20|4|NAT|EC|3.050 to 3.080|1|
|21|4|NAT|EC|6.25 to 6.25|1|
|22|4|NAT|EC|0.5 to 0.5|1|
|23|4|NAT|EC|160 to 160|1|
|24|4|NAT|EC|6 to 6|1|
|25|4|NAT|EC|0.25 to 0.25|1|
|26|4|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|27|4|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|28|4|MCQ|EC|C|2|
|29|4|MCQ|EC|C|2|
|30|4|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|31|4|MCQ|EC|MTA|2|
|32|4|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|33|4|MCQ|EC|MTA|2|
---
|Question Number|Type|Subject|Answer|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|34|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|35|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|36|MCQ|EC|C|2|
|37|MCQ|EC|B|2|
|38|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|39|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|40|MCQ|EC|A|2|
|41|MCQ|EC|D|2|
|42|MCQ|EC|B|2|
|43|MCQ|EC|A|2|

|Question Number|Type|Subject|Range|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|44|NAT|EC|800 to 800|2|
|45|NAT|EC|1 to 1|2|
|46|NAT|EC|0.8 to 0.8|2|
|47|NAT|EC|2 to 2|2|
|48|NAT|EC|3 to 3|2|
|49|NAT|EC|3.95 to 4.05|2|
|50|NAT|EC|76 to 77|2|
|51|NAT|EC|2.25 to 2.25|2|
|52|NAT|EC|58.50 to 58.80|2|
|53|NAT|EC|-2 to -2|2|
|54|NAT|EC|0.299 to 0.301|2|
|55|NAT|EC|30 to 30|2|

Copyright : GATE 2020, IIT Delhi