# Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering 2017

Question Paper Name: Chemical Engineering 12th Feb 2017

Subject Name:

Duration: 180

Total Marks: 100

Organizing Institute: Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee
---
# Question Number : 1

Correct : 1 Wrong : 0

The value of lim tan(x) as x approaches 0

# Question Number : 2

Correct : 1 Wrong : 0

The real part of 6e^(i/3) is

# Question Number : 3

Correct : 1 Wrong : 0

The number of positive roots of the function f (x) shown below in the range 0 < x < 6 is

15012090603030-60

# Question Number : 4

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

Let i and j be the unit vectors in the x and y directions, respectively. For the function

F(x,y) = x3 + y2

the gradient of the function i.e., ∇F is given by

(A) 3x2i - 2yj(B) 6x2y(C) 3x2i + 2yj(D) 2yi - 3x2j
---
# Question Number : 5

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

The marks obtained by a set of students are: 38, 84, 45, 70, 75, 60, 48.

The mean and median marks, respectively, are:

- (A) 45 and 75
- (B) 55 and 48
- (C) 60 and 60
- (D) 60 and 70

# Question Number : 6

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

The volumetric properties of two gases M and N are described by the generalized compressibility chart which expresses the compressibility factor as a function of reduced pressure and reduced temperature only. The operating pressure (P) and temperature (T) of two gases M and N along with their critical properties (Pc, Tc) are given in the table below.

|Gas|P (bar)|T (K)|Pc (bar)|Tc (K)|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|M|25|300|75|150|
|N|75|1000|225|500|

Zu and ZN are the compressibility factors of the gases M and N under the given operating conditions respectively. The relation between Zu and ZN is:

- (A) Zu = 8ZN
- (B) Zu = 32ZN
- (C) Zu = ZN
- (D) Zu = 0.333ZN

# Question Number : 7

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

Water is heated at atmospheric pressure from 40°C to 80°C using two different processes. In process I, the heating is done by a source at 80°C. In process II, the water is first heated from 40°C to 60°C by a source at 60°C, and then from 60°C to 80°C by another source at 80°C. Identify the correct statement.

- (A) Enthalpy change of water in process I is greater than enthalpy change in process II
- (B) Enthalpy change of water in process II is greater than enthalpy change in process I
- (C) Process I is closer to reversibility
- (D) Process II is closer to reversibility
---
# Question Number : 8

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

In a venturi meter: AP1 and /APi equals Qz: If Qz/Q1 2. then APz = APz are the pressure drops corresponding to volumetric flow rates Q1 and

(A) 2
(B) 4
(C) 0.
(D) 0.25

# Question Number : 9

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

The thickness of laminar boundary layer over a flat plate varies along the distance from the leading edge of the plate. As the distance increases, the boundary layer thickness

|(A) increases|(B) decreases|
|---|---|
|(C) initially increases and then decreases|(D) initially decreases and then increases|

# Question Number : 10

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

Which of the following is the correct sequence of equipment for size reduction of solids?

|Fluid energy mill|Hammer mill|
|---|---|
|Jaw crusher|Jaw crusher|
|Hammer mill|Fluid energy mill|
|Fluid energy mill|Jaw crusher|
|Hammer mill|Hammer mill|
|Jaw crusher|Fluid energy mill|
---
# Question Number : 11

Correct : 1 Wrong : 0

A gas bubble (gas density Pg = 2 kg/m3: bubble diameter D = 10-4 m) is rising vertically through water (density p = 1000 kg/m3: viscosity u = 0.001 Pa.s). Force balance on the bubble leads to the following equation:

dv
dt = -I Pg
18p
Pg
PgDz

where v is the velocity of the bubble at any given time t. Assume that the volume of the rising bubble does not change. The value of g is 9.81 m/s2. The terminal rising velocity of the bubble (in cm/s), rounded to 2 decimal places, is __________ cm/s.

# Question Number : 12

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

The one-dimensional unsteady heat conduction equation is:

PCp dt
dT
rn dr
("kd)

where T is temperature, time, radial position; thermal conductivity, density, and Cp is specific heat. For the cylindrical coordinate system, the value of n in the above equation is:

(A) __________ (B) __________ (C) __________ (D) __________

# Question Number : 13

Correct : 1 Wrong : 0

In a heat exchanger, the inner diameter of a tube is 25 mm and its outer diameter is 30 mm. The overall heat transfer coefficient based on the inner area is 360 W/m2·°C. Then, the overall heat transfer coefficient based on the outer area, rounded to the nearest integer, is __________ W/m2·°C.
---
# Question Number : 14

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

Which of the following conditions are valid at the plait point?

- P) Density difference between the extract and raffinate phases is Zero
- Interfacial tension between the extract and raffinate phases is Zero
- R) Composition difference between the extract and raffinate phases is Zero

(A) P and Q only
and R only
P and R only
(D) P Q and R

# Question Number : 15

Correct : 1 Wrong : 0

The composition of vapour entering a tray in a distillation column is 0.47. The average composition of the Vapour leaving the tray is 0.53. The equilibrium composition of the Vapour corresponding to the liquid leaving this tray is 0.52. All the compositions are expressed in mole fraction of the more volatile component.

The Murphree efficiency based on the Vapour phase, rounded to the nearest integer, is

# Question Number : 16

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

Consider steady state mass transfer of a solute A from a gas phase to a liquid phase. The gas phase bulk and interface mole fractions are YA,G and YA,i respectively. The liquid phase bulk and interface mole fractions are XA,L and XA,i respectively. The ratio (YA,G / (XA,i - XA,L)) is very close to Zero.

This implies that mass transfer resistance is

(A) negligible in the gas phase onlynegligible in the liquid phase onlynegligible in both the phasesconsiderable in both the phases
---
# Question Number : 17

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

The following reaction rate curve is shown for a reaction. Here, (~rA) and XA represent reaction rate and conversion, respectively. The feed is pure A and 90% conversion is desired.

|CTA| | | |
|---|---|
| |0.4|0.6|0.8|
|XA| | | |

Which amongst the following reactor configurations gives the lowest total volume of the reactor(s)?

- (A) CSTR followed by PFR
- (B) Two CSTRs in series
- (C) PFR followed by CSTR
- (D) A single PFR

# Question Number : 18

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

Consider a first order catalytic reaction in a porous catalyst pellet:

Given characteristic length of the pellet: De effective diffusivity: kc mass transfer coefficient: k1 rate constant based on volume of the catalyst pellet: Cs concentration of reactant on the pellet surface.

The expression for Thiele modulus is:

kcR

De

(C) R kiCs De (D) %
---
# Question Number : 19

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

For a solid-catalyzed gas phase reversible reaction, which of the following statements is ALWAYS TRUE?

- (A) Adsorption is rate-limiting
- (B) Desorption is rate-limiting
- (C) Solid catalyst does not affect equilibrium conversion
- Temperature does not affect equilibrium conversion

# Question Number : 20

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

Match the variables in Group-1 with the instruments in Group-2.

|Group-1|Group-2|
|---|---|
|P) Temperature|Capacitance probe|
|Q) Liquid level|McLeod gauge|
|R) Vacuum|Chromatograph|
|S) Concentration|IV Thermistor|

Choose the correct set of combinations.

- (A) P-IV, Q-III, R-II, S-I
- (B) P-I, Q-II, R-IV, S-III
- P-IV, Q-I, R-II, S-III
- (D) P-III, Q-II, R-I, S-IV

# Question Number : 21

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

An LVDT (Linear Variable Differential Transformer) is a transducer used for converting:

- (A) displacement to voltage
- voltage to displacement
- resistance to voltage
- voltage to current

# Question Number : 22

Correct : 1 Wrong : 0

The cost of a new pump (including installation) is 24,000 Rupees. The pump has a useful life of 10 years. Its salvage value is 4,000 Rupees. Assuming straight line depreciation, the book value of the pump at the end of 4th year, rounded to the nearest integer, is Rupees:
---
# Question Number : 23

The DCDA (Double Contact Double Absorption) process is used for the manufacture of

- (A) urea
- (B) sulphuric acid
- (C) nitric acid

# Question Number : 24

Match the polymerization processes in Group-1 with the polymers in Group-2

|Group-1|Group-2|
|---|---|
|P) Free radical polymerization|I) Nylon 6.6|
|Q) Ziegler Natta polymerization|II) Polypropylene|
|R) Condensation polymerization|III) Poly vinyl chloride|

Choose the correct set of combinations:

- (A) P-I: Q-II: R-III
- (B) P-III. Q-II R-I
- (D) P-I. Q-I R-III

# Question Number : 25

The purpose of methanation reaction used in ammonia plants is to

- (A) remove CO as it is a catalyst poison
- (B) increase the amount of hydrogen
- remove sulphur as it is a catalyst poison
- utilize methane as a catalyst for ammonia synthesis

# Question Number : 26

For the initial value problem

dx/dt = sin(t), x(0) = 0

the value of x at t = 1/3 is

- Correct : 1
- Wrong : -0.33
---
# Question Number : 27

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

The Laplace transform of a function is s(s+2) / S+1

The initial and final values, respectively, of the function are

| |(B)|and 1|
|---|---|---|
| |(D)|and|

# Question Number : 28

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

Match the problem type in Group-1 with the numerical method in Group-2

|Group-1|Group-2|
|---|---|
|P) System of linear algebraic equations|Newton-Raphson|
|Q) Non-linear algebraic equations|Gauss-Seidel|
|R) Ordinary differential equations|III) Simpson rule|
|S) Numerical integration|IV) Runge-Kutta|

Choose the correct set of combinations:

- P-II Q-I R-III S-IV
- P-I Q-II R-IV S-III
- P-IV Q-III R-II S-I
- P-II Q-I R-IV S-III

# Question Number : 29

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

A box has 6 red balls and 4 white balls. A ball is picked at random and replaced in the box, after which a second ball is picked.

The probability of both the balls being red rounded to 2 decimal places is
---
# Question Number : 30

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

An aqueous salt-solution enters a crystallizer operating at steady state at 25°C. The feed temperature is 90°C and the salt concentration in the feed is 40 weight %. The salt crystallizes as a pentahydrate. The crystals and the mother liquor leave the crystallizer: The molecular weight of the anhydrous salt is 135. The solubility of the salt at 25°C is 20 weight %.

The feed flowrate required for kgls. production rate of 100 kg/s of the hydrated salt, rounded to the nearest integer is

# Question Number : 31

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

Reaction A B is carried out in a reactor operating at steady state and mol/s of pure A at 425°C enters the reactor: The outlet stream leaves the reactor at 325°C. The heat input to the reactor is 17 kW. The heat of reaction at the reference temperature of 25°C is 30 kJ/mol: The specific heat capacities (in kJ/molK) of A and B are 0.1 and 0.15, respectively:

The molar flowrate of B leaving the reactor, rounded to 2 decimal places, is

# Question Number : 32

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The pressure of a liquid is increased isothermally. The molar volume of the liquid decreases from 50.45×10-6 m3/mol to 48×10-6 m3/mol during this process. The isothermal compressibility of the liquid is 10-9 Pa-1, which can be assumed to be independent of pressure.

The change in the molar Gibbs free energy of the liquid, rounded to nearest integer, is

# Question Number : 33

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

A sparingly soluble gas (solute) is in equilibrium with solvent at 10 bar. The mole fraction of the solvent in the gas phase is 0.01. At the operating temperature and pressure, the fugacity coefficient of the solute in the gas phase and the Henry's law constant are 0.92 and 1000 bar, respectively. Assume that the liquid phase obeys Henry's law.

The MOLE PERCENTAGE of the solute in the liquid phase, rounded to 2 decimal places, is
---
# Question Number : 34

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The vapour pressure of a pure substance at a temperature T is 30 bar. The actual and ideal gas values of g /RT for the saturated vapour at this temperature T and 30 bar are 7.0 and 7.7, respectively. Here g is the molar Gibbs free energy and R is the Universal gas constant. The fugacity of the saturated liquid at these conditions, rounded to 1 decimal place, is __________ bar.

# Question Number : 35

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

Oil is being delivered at a steady flowrate through a circular pipe of radius 1.25 x 10-2 m and length 10 m. The pressure drop across the pipe is 500 Pa. The shear stress at the pipe wall rounded to 2 decimal places is __________ Pa.

# Question Number : 36

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

The following table provides four sets of Fanning friction factor data for different values of Reynolds number (Re) and roughness factor:

|Set| | |Re| | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|102|103|105|105| | |
| |I|0.16|0.016|16 x 10-5|16 x 10-5|
| |II|0.016|0.16|0.0055|0.0045|
| |III|0.16|0.016|0.0045|0.0055|
| |IV|0.0045|0.0055|0.016|0.16|

Which of the above sets of friction factor data is correct?

(A) Set I (B) Set II (C) Set III (D) Set IV
---
# Question Number : 37

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

Propeller (diameter D = 15 m) rotates at N = 1 revolution per second (1ps). To understand the flow around the propeller: a lab-scale model is made. Important parameters to study the flow are velocity of the propeller tip (TND), diameter D and acceleration due to gravity (g). The lab-scale model is 1/100th of the size of the actual propeller:

The rotation speed of the lab-scale model: to the nearest integer, should be 1ps.

# Question Number : 38

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

Size analysis was carried out on a sample of gravel. The data for mass fraction (xi) and average particle diameter (Dpi) of the fraction is given in the table below:

|Dpi (mm)| |
|---|---|
|10| |
|20| |

The mass mean diameter of the sample, to the nearest integer, is

# Question Number : 39

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

Let Iba be the spectral blackbody radiation intensity per unit wavelength about the wavelength A. The blackbody radiation intensity emitted by a blackbody over all wavelengths is

(C) J Ibada (D) AlbidA
---
# Question Number : 40

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

A fluid flows over a heated horizontal plate maintained at temperature Tw- The bulk temperature of the fluid is To. The temperature profile in the thermal boundary layer is given by:

T = Tw + (Tw - To)  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  0 < y < δt

Here, y is the vertical distance from the plate, δt is the thickness of the thermal boundary layer and k is the thermal conductivity of the fluid.

The local heat transfer coefficient is given by:

- (A) 28t
- (B) St
- (C) 2 &delta;t
- (D) 2 St

# Question Number : 41

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

In nucleate boiling the pressure inside a bubble is higher than the pressure of the surrounding liquid. Assuming that both the liquid and vapour are saturated, the temperature of the liquid will ALWAYS be:

- (A) at 100 °C
- (B) lower than the temperature of the vapour
- (C) equal to the temperature of the vapour
- (D) higher than the temperature of the vapour

# Question Number : 42

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The vapor phase composition and relative volatilities (with respect to 1-propane) of an ideal tray of a distillation column are:

|Component|Methane|Ethane|n-Propane|
|---|---|---|---|
|Mole fraction in vapour|0.12|0.28|0.60|
|Relative volatility|10|10|10|

The mole fraction of 1-propane in the liquid phase, rounded to 2 decimal places, is:
---
# Question Number : 43

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

The Sherwood number (Shz) correlation for laminar flow over a flat plate of length L is given by:

Shz = 0.664 Re0.5 Sc2/3

where Rez and Sc represent Reynolds number and Schmidt number, respectively.

This correlation expressed in the form of Chilton-Colburn j factor is:

- (A) jd = 0.664
- (B) jd = 0.664 Re0.5
- (C) jd = 0.664 Rez jn = 0.664 Re2 Sc2/3

# Question Number : 44

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

In a countercurrent stripping operation using pure steam, the mole ratio of a solute in the liquid stream is reduced from 0.25 to 0.05. The liquid feed flowrate, on a solute-free basis, is 3 mol/s. The equilibrium line for the system is given in the figure below.

| |0.05|0.1|0.15|0.2|0.25|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0.15|1|0.1|8|2|.|
|0.05|0.1|0.15|0.2|0.25|equilibrium|

The MINIMUM flowrate of pure steam for this process rounded to 1 decimal place is: ____ mol/s
---
# Question Number : 45

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

In batch adsorption process, 5 g of fresh adsorbent is used to treat liter of a1 aqueous phenol solution. The initial phenol concentration is 100 mg/liter. The equilibrium relation is given by:

q* = 1.3C

where q* is the amount of phenol adsorbed in mg of phenol per gram of adsorbent, and C is the concentration of phenol in mg/liter in the aqueous solution. When equilibrium is attained between the adsorbent and the solution, the concentration of phenol in the solution rounded to 1 decimal place is __________ mg/liter.

# Question Number : 46

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The C-curve measured during the pulse tracer experiment is shown below. In the figure, C(t) is the concentration of the tracer measured at the reactor exit in mol/liter at time __________ seconds.

15

0.5

The mean residence time in the reactor, rounded to 1 decimal place, is __________.

# Question Number : 47

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The following liquid phase second-order reaction is carried out in a1 isothermal CSTR at steady state:

A → R

(−dCA) = 0.005C3 mol L/m3 . hr

where CA is the concentration of the reactant in the CSTR. The reactor volume is 2 m3, the inlet flow rate is 0.5 m3/hr and the inlet concentration of the reactant is 1000 mol/m3.

The fractional conversion, rounded to 2 decimal places, is __________.
---
# Question Number : 48

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The reversible reaction of t-butyl alcohol (TBA) and ethanol (EtOH) to ethyl t-butyl ether (ETBE) is

TBA + EtOH &rarr; ETBE + Water

The equilibrium constant for this reaction is Kc = 1. Initially, 74 g of TBA is mixed with 100 g of aqueous solution containing 46 weight% ethanol. The molecular weights are: 74 g/mol for TBA, 46 g/mol for EtOH, 102 g/mol for ETBE, and 18 g/mol for water.

The mass of ETBE at equilibrium rounded to decimal place is

# Question Number : 49

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The following gas-phase reaction is carried out in a constant-volume isothermal batch reactor

A + B &rarr; R + $

The reactants A and B as well as the product $ are non-condensable gases. At the operating temperature, the saturation pressure of the product R is 40 kPa.

Initially, the batch reactor contains equimolar amounts of A and B (and no products) at a total pressure of 100 kPa. The initial concentrations of the reactants are CA,0 = CB,0 = 12.5 mol/m3. The rate of reaction is given by (-dA/dt) = 0.08 CACB mol/m3s.

The time at which R just starts condensing, rounded to decimal place is

# Question Number : 50

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The transfer function of a system is

4s2 + 1.2s + 1

For a unit step increase in the input, the fractional overshoot, rounded to 2 decimal places is
---
# Question Number : 51

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The open loop transfer function of a process with a proportional controller (gain Kc) is

Gol Kc

Based on the Bode criterion for closed-loop stability, the ultimate gain of the controller, rounded to 2 decimal places, is

# Question Number : 52

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The characteristic equation of a closed-loop system is

6s3 + 11s2 + 6s + (1 + K) = 0, where K > 0

The value of K beyond which the system just becomes unstable, rounded to the nearest integer, is

# Question Number : 53

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

A bond has a maturity value of 20,000 Rupees at the end of 4 years. The interest is compounded at the rate of 5% per year:

The initial investment to be made, rounded to the nearest integer, is Rupees

# Question Number : 54

Correct : 2 Wrong : 0

The total cost (CT) of an equipment in terms of the operating variables X and y is

C1 = 2x + 12000 + y + 5xy

The optimal value of CT, rounded to 1 decimal place, is
---
# Question Number : 55

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

Match the equipment in Group-l with the process in Group-2

|Group-l|Group-2|
|---|---|
|P) Fluidized bed|Paper-making|
|Q) Multistage adiabatic reactor with inter-stage cooling|II) Sodium hydroxide manufacture|
|R) Fourdrinier machine|II) SO2 oxidation|
|S) Diaphragm cell|IV) Catalytic cracking|

Choose the correct set of combinations

- (A) P-IV. Q-III R-I. S-II
- (B) P-IV. Q-III R-II. S-I
- (C) P-III. Q-IV. R-I. S-II
- (D) P-III Q-IV. R-II. S-I

# Question Number : 56

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

The bacteria in milk are destroyed when it heated to 80 degree Celsius.

- (A) would be
- (B) will be
- (C) is
- (D) was

# Question Number : 57

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

with someone else email account is now a very serious offence.

- (A) Involving
- (B) Assisting
- (C) Tampering
- (D) Incubating
---
# Question Number : 58

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

Consider the following sentences:

All benches are beds. No bed is a bulb. Some bulbs are lamps:

Which of the following can be inferred?

- Some beds are lamps
- Some lamps are beds

(A) Only i

(B) Only ii

(C) Both i and ii

(D) Neither i nor ii

# Question Number : 59

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

If the radius of a right circular cone is increased by 50%, its volume increases by

- (A) 750
- (B) 100%
- (C) 125%
- (D) 237.59

# Question Number : 60

Correct : 1 Wrong : -0.33

The following sequence of numbers is arranged in increasing order: 1, x, 1, V, y, 9, 16, 18. Given that the mean and median are equal, and are also equal to twice the mode, the value of y is

- (A) 5
- (B)
- (C)
- (D) 8
---
# Question Number : 61

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

The old concert hall was demolished because of fears that the foundation would be affected by the technology for underground metro construction of the new metro line in the area. Modern construction tried to mitigate the impact of pressurized air pockets created by the excavation of large amounts of soil. But even with these safeguards it was feared that the soil below the concert hall would not be stable.

From this, one can infer that:

- (A) the foundations of old buildings create pressurized air pockets underground which are difficult to handle during metro construction
- (B) metro construction has to be done carefully considering its impact on the foundations of existing buildings
- (C) old buildings in an area form an impossible hurdle to metro construction in that area
- (D) pressurized air can be used to excavate large amounts of soil from underground areas

# Question Number : 62

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

Students applying for hostel rooms are allotted rooms in order of seniority. Students already staying in existing buildings will move if they get preferences in their preferred list: Preferences of lower ranked applicants are ignored.

Given the data below, which room will Ajit stay in?

|Names|Student seniority|Current room|Room preference list|
|---|---|---|---|
|Amar|R|S| |
|Akbar|None|R|$|
|Anthony| | | |
|Ajit|0|P|R|

- (A) P
- (B)
- (C) R

# Question Number : 63

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

The last digit of (2171)7 + (2172)9 + (2173)11 + (2174)13 is:

- (A) 2
- (B) 4
---
# Question Number : 64

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

Two machines Ml and M2 are able to execute any of four jobs P, Q, R and S. The machines can perform one job on one object at a time. Jobs P, Q, R and S take 30 minutes, 20 minutes, 60 minutes and 15 minutes each respectively. Job P is to be performed on 2 objects, Job Q on 3 objects, Job R on 1 object and Job S on 4 objects. What is the minimum time needed to complete all the jobs?

- (A) 2 hours
- (B) 2.5 hours
- (C) 3 hours
- (D) 3.5 hours

# Question Number : 65

Correct : 2 Wrong : -0.66

The bar graph below shows the output of five carpenters over one month, each of whom made different items of furniture: chairs, tables, and beds.

|Bed|Table|Chair|
|---|---|---|
|Carpenter (C1)|Carpenter (C2)|Carpenter (C3)|
|Carpenter (C4)|Carpenter (C5)| |

Consider the following statements:

- The number of beds made by carpenter C2 is exactly the same as the number of tables made by carpenter C3.
- The total number of chairs made by all carpenters is less than the total number of tables.

Which one of the following is true?

- (A) Only I
- (B) Only II
- (C) Both I and II
- (D) Neither I nor II
---
|Q. No.|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|1|NAT|CH|1 to 1|1|
|2|NAT|CH|2.99 to 3.01|1|
|3|NAT|CH|3 to 3|1|
|4|MCQ|CH|C|1|
|5|MCQ|CH|C|1|
|6|MCQ|CH|C|1|
|7|MCQ|CH|D|1|
|8|MCQ|CH|B|1|
|9|MCQ|CH|A|1|
|10|MCQ|CH|D|1|
|11|NAT|CH|0.52 to 0.56|1|
|12|MCQ|CH|B|1|
|13|NAT|CH|298 to 302|1|
|14|MCQ|CH|D|1|
|15|NAT|CH|119 to 121|1|
|16|MCQ|CH|B|1|
|17|MCQ|CH|A|1|
|18|MCQ|CH|B|1|
|19|MCQ|CH|C|1|
|20|MCQ|CH|C|1|
|21|MCQ|CH|A|1|
|22|NAT|CH|15900 to 16100|1|
|23|MCQ|CH|B|1|
|24|MCQ|CH|B|1|
|25|MCQ|CH|A|1|
|26|NAT|CH|0.49 to 0.51|2|
|27|MCQ|CH|B|2|
|28|MCQ|CH|D|2|
|29|NAT|CH|0.35 to 0.37|2|
|30|NAT|CH|198 to 202|2|
|31|NAT|CH|0.59 to 0.61|2|
|32|NAT|CH|2440 to 2460|2|
|33|NAT|CH|0.90 to 0.92|2|
|34|NAT|CH|14.7 to 15.1|2|
|35|NAT|CH|0.30 to 0.33|2|
|36|MCQ|CH|C|2|
---
|Index|Type|Category|Value|Score|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|37|NAT|CH|9.9 to 10.1|2|
|38|NAT|CH|12.99 to 13.01|2|
|39|MCQ|CH|C|2|
|40|MCQ|CH|C|2|
|41|MCQ|CH|B|2|
|42|NAT|CH|0.86 to 0.90|2|
|43|MCQ|CH|B|2|
|44|NAT|CH|3.9 to 4.1|2|
|45|NAT|CH|13.0 to 13.5|2|
|46|NAT|CH|1.0 to 1.0|2|
|47|NAT|CH|0.79 to 0.81|2|
|48|NAT|CH|20.2 to 20.6|2|
|49|NAT|CH|3.9 to 4.1|2|
|50|NAT|CH|0.36 to 0.38|2|
|51|NAT|CH|0.77 to 0.80|2|
|52|NAT|CH|10 to 10|2|
|53|NAT|CH|16300 to 16600|2|
|54|NAT|CH|90.0 to 93.0|2|
|55|MCQ|CH|A|2|
|56|MCQ|GA|C|1|
|57|MCQ|GA|C|1|
|58|MCQ|GA|D|1|
|59|MCQ|GA|C|1|
|60|MCQ|GA|D|1|
|61|MCQ|GA|B|2|
|62|MCQ|GA|B|2|
|63|MCQ|GA|B|2|
|64|MCQ|GA|A|2|
|65|MCQ|GA|C|2|