# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-6

# Q1-Q.5 carry one mark each:

1. The expenditure of the project follows: equipment Rs.20 lakhs, salaries Rs.12 lakhs, and contingency Rs.3 lakhs
- (A) break down
- (B) break
- (C) breaks down
- (D) breaks
2. The search engine's business model revolves around the fulcrum of trust
- (A) revolves
- (B) plays
- (C) sinks
- (D) bursts
3. The speed of the first car is 50 km/h and the speed of the second car is 60 km/h: Two cars start at the same time from the same location and go in the same direction. The number of hours it takes for the distance between the two cars to be 20 km is
- (A) 1
- (B) 2
- (C) 3
- (D)
4. Ten friends planned to share equally the cost of buying a gift for their teacher: When two of the friends dropped out, the cost of the gift was Rs.
- (A) 666
- (B) 3000
- (C) 6000
- (D) 12000
5. A court is to a judge as _____ is to a teacher
- (A) a student
- (B) punishment
- (C) syllabus
- (D) school

# Q.6-Q.10 carry two marks each:

The police arrested four criminals P, Q, R, and S. The criminals knew each other. They made the following statements:

- P says "I committed the crime"
- Q says "S committed the crime"
- R says "T did not do it."
- S says "What Q said about me is false"

Assume only one of the arrested four committed the crime and only one of the statements made above is true. Who committed the crime?

- (A) P
- (B) R
- (C) S
- (D) Q
---
# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA)

# Set-6

# Q.7

In the given diagram; teachers are represented in the triangle, researchers in the circle and administrators in the rectangle. Out of the total number of the people, the percentage of administrators shall be in the range of

|Teachers|10|70|20|
|---|---|---|---|
|Administrators|20| | |
|Researchers|40| | |

(A) 0 to 15  (B) 16 to 30  (C) 31 to 45  (D) 46 to 60

# Q.8

A recent High Court judgement has sought to dispel the idea of begging as a disease which leads to its stigmatization and criminalization to protect citizens who fall through the social security net: Which one of the following statements can be inferred from the given passage?

- Beggars are lazy people who beg because they are unwilling to work
- Beggars are created because of the lack of social welfare schemes
- Begging has to be banned because it dealt with firmly
- Begging is an offence that has to be adversely affects the welfare of the state

# Q.9

In a college, there are three student clubs. Sixty students are only in the Drama club, 80 students are only in the Dance club, 0 students are only in the Maths club, 40 students are in both Drama and Dance clubs, 12 students are in both Dance and Maths clubs, students are in both Drama and Maths clubs, and 2 students are in all the clubs. If 75% of the students in the college are not in any of these clubs, then the total number of students in the college is

(A) 1000  (B) 975  (C) 900  (D) 225

GA 21/3
---
# GATE 2019 General Aptitude (GA) Set-6

Q.10 Thee of the five students allocated to a hoste plan that will accommodate all their requests put in special requests to the warden. Given the floor plan of the vacant rooms, select the allocator.

- Request by X: Due to pollen allergy: want to stay in the wing next to the garden
- Request by Y: I want to live as far from the washrooms as possible, since I am very sensitive to smell.
- Request by Z: I believe in Vaastu and so want to avoid a washroom

The shaded rooms are already occupied.

|WR|J|N|J|
|---|---|---|---|
|W|WR|X|J|
|WR|N|J|Entrance|
|W|WR|X|Z|

END OF THE QUESTION PAPER
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q.1-Q. 25 carry one mark each:

# Q.1

A system of n homogeneous linear equations containing n unknowns will have non-trivial solutions if and only if the determinant of the coefficient matrix is

|(A)|1|
|---|---|
|(B)|-1|
|(C)|0|
|(D)|co|

# Q.2

The value of the expression lim x→0 tan x is

|(A)|∞|
|---|---|
|(B)|0|
|(C)|1|
|(D)|-1|

# Q.3

Consider a rigid, perfectly insulated container partitioned into two unequal parts by a thin membrane (see figure) containing one mole of an ideal gas at pressure Pi and temperature Ti while the other part is evacuated. The membrane ruptures, the gas fills the entire volume and the equilibrium pressure is Pf = Pi/4. If Cp (molar specific heat capacity at constant pressure), Cv (molar specific heat capacity at constant volume) and R (universal gas constant) have the same units as molar entropy, the change in molar entropy (Sf - Si) is

Cpln2 + Rln4~Cvln2 + Rln4Rln4Cpln2

# Q.4

For a single component system; mechanical, thermal and phase equilibrium (subscript g) and liquid (subscript f) coexist in m when

|(A)|ug = uf (equality of specific internal energy)|
|---|---|
|(B)|hg = hf (equality of specific enthalpy)|
|(C)|Sg = Sf (equality of specific entropy)|
|(D)|Gg = Gf (equality of specific Gibbs energy)|
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q5

For a binary nonideal A-B mixture exhibiting minimum boiling azeotrope, the activity coefficients, Yi (i = A, B); must satisfy

- (A) YA > 1, YB > 1
- (B) YA < 1, YB > 1
- (C) YA = 1, YB = 1
- (D) YA < 1, YB < 1

# Q6

For a fully-developed turbulent hydrodynamic boundary layer for flow past a flat plate, the thickness of the boundary layer increases with distance x from the leading edge of the plate as:

- (A) x0.5
- (B) x1/5
- (C) x0.4
- (D) x0.8

# Q7

Consider a cylinder (diameter D and length L), a sphere (diameter D), and a cube (side length D). Which of the following statements concerning the sphericity (Φ) of the above objects is true:

- (A) sphere > cylinder > cube
- (B) sphere = cylinder = cube
- (C) sphere < cylinder < cube
- (D) cylinder > sphere > cube

# Q8

Prandtl number signifies the ratio of

- Momentum Diffusivity
- Mass Diffusivity
- Thermal Diffusivity

Pool boiling equipment operating above ambient temperature is usually designed to operate

- far above the critical heat flux
- near the critical heat flux
- far above the Leidenfrost point
- near the Leidenfrost point
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q.10

The desired liquid-phase reaction

D + E &rarr; F

TF = k1CP2CE03

is accompanied by an undesired side reaction

D + E &rarr; G

Ta = k2CP04C115

Four isothermal reactor schemes (CSTR: ideal Continuous-Stirred Tank Reactor; PFR: ideal Plug Flow Reactor) are designed for the same COL processing equal version: The scheme that gives the most favorable product distribution is:

|PFR|CSTR| |
|---|---|---|
|PFR|PFR| |

# Q.11

For a first order reaction in a porous spherical catalyst pellet, diffusional effects are most likely to lower the observed rate of reaction for:

- slow reaction in a pellet of small diameter
- slow reaction in a pellet of large diameter
- fast reaction in a pellet of small diameter
- fast reaction in a pellet of large diameter

# Q.12

A thermocouple senses temperature based on the:

- Nernst Effect
- Tovell Effect
- Seebeck Effect
- Peltier Effect

# Q.13

The correct expression for the Colburn j-factor for mass transfer that relates Sherwood number (Sh), Reynolds number (Re) and Schmidt number (Sc) is:

- (A) (Re)(Sc)1/3 = Sh
- (B) (Re)2/3(Sc) = Sh
- (C) Sh = (Re)2(Sc)1/3
- (D) Sh = (Re)(Sc)
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q.14

In the drying of non-dissolving solids at constant drying conditions, the internal movement of moisture in the solid has a dominant effect on the drying rate during:

- the initial adjustment period only
- the constant rate period only
- the falling rate period only
- both the initial adjustment and constant rate periods

# Q.15

Three distillation schemes for separating an equimolar, constant relative volatility ABC mixture into nearly pure components are shown. The usual simplifying assumptions such as ideal trays are valid. All the schemes are designed for minimum total reboiler duty that arranges the optimally-designed schemes in ascending order of total reboiler duty is:

|AB|BC|CC|
|---|---|---|
|04|8.2.1| |

Given that the relative volatilities are in the ratio:

- (A) I, I, I
- (B) III, I, I
- (C) II, I, III
- (D) I, I, I

4/16
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q.16

Consider the two countercurrent heat exchanger designs for heating a cold stream from Tin to Tout conditions and overall heat transfer coefficients. The inlet stream is available at Tin as shown in figure. The hot process coefficients are identical in both the designs. The heat transfer area in Design I and Design II are respectively AHx and AHx.

|Design I|Tin|Design II|Tin|
|---|---|---|---|
|AHx|Tout|AHx|Tout|
|Tout| |Tin| |

If heat losses are neglected, and if both the designs are feasible; which of the following statements holds true:

- (A) AHx > AHx
- (B) AHx = AHx
- (C) AHx < AHx

Reducer: passing air through red hot coke, cracking of naphtha, passing steam through red hot coke, passing air and steam through red hot coke.

# Q.18

In Kraft process, the essential chemical reagents used in the digester are:

- caustic soda, mercaptans and ethylene oxide
- caustic soda, sodium sulphide and quick lime
- salt cake and dimethyl sulfoxide
- baking soda, sodium sulphide and mercaptans

# Q.19

The most common catalyst used for oxidation of o-xylene to phthalic anhydride is:

- (A) V2O5
- (B) Pd
- (C) Pt
- (D) Ag
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q.20

In petroleum refining operations, the process used for converting paraffins and naphthenes to aromatics is

- alkylation
- catalytic reforming
- hydrocracking
- isomerization

# Q.21

The combination that correctly matches polymer in Group-1 with the polymerization reaction type in Group-2 is

|Group-1|Group-2|
|---|---|
|P) Nylon 6|D) Condensation polymerization|
|Polypropylene|I) Addition polymerization|
|Ring opening polymerization| |
|R) Polyester| |

(A) P-II, Q-L R-III

(B) P-I Q-IIIL R-I

(C) P-II, Q-II R-I

(D) P-II, Q-III, R-I

# Q.22

The product of the eigenvalues of the matrix (rounded off to one decimal place) is

# Q.23

For a hydraulic lift with dimensions shown in figure, assuming g = 10 m/s2, the maximum diameter Dlift (in m) that lifts a vehicle of mass 1000 kg using a force of 100 N is (rounded off to two decimal places).

100 N

Dlift

[g]

Diameter

2 m

# Q.24

The liquid flow rate through an equal percentage control valve is 50 psi: If the specific gravity of the liquid is 0.8, then the valve coefficient, Cv, in al/(min psi) when fully open, is (rounded off to two decimal places).
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q.25

Consider a sealed rigid bottle containing CO2 and H2O at 10 bar and ambient temperature. Assume that the gas phase in the bottle is pure CO2 and follows the ideal gas law: The liquid phase in the bottle contains CO2 dissolved in H2O and is an ideal solution. The Henry's constant at the system pressure and temperature is 1000 bar. The equilibrium mole fraction of CO2 dissolved in H2O is (rounded off to three decimal places).

7/16
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q. 26 - Q. 55 carry two marks each.

# Q.26

The solution of the ordinary differential equation

dy + 3y = 1, subject to the initial condition at x = 0, is

|(A)|3(+2e-x)|
|---|---|
|(B)|3(6-2e-x)|
|(C)|1(5-2e-x)|
|(D)|1(+2ex)|

# Q.27

The value of the complex number {~V2 where i = V-1} is

|(A)|Ja - i|
|---|---|
|(B)|7'|
|(C)|Ji|
|(D)|Ja + i|

# Q.28

An incompressible Newtonian fluid flows in a pipe of diameter D; at volumetric flow rate Q. Fluid with same properties flows in another pipe of diameter D2 = D / 2 at the same flow rate Q. The transition length required for achieving fully-developed flow is L for the tube of diameter D1 and L2 for the tube of diameter D2. Both cases, the ratio L2/L1 is:

|(A)|1/4|
|---|---|
|(B)|1|
|(C)|2|
|(D)|4|

# Q.29

A disk turbine is used to stir a liquid in a baffled tank. To design the agitator, experiments are performed in a lab-scale model with turbine diameter of 0.05 m and a turbine impeller speed of 600 rpm. The actual application has a turbine diameter of 0.5 m, an impeller speed of 600 rpm, a liquid viscosity of 0.001 Pa s while the liquid density is 1000 kg/m3. If the power required in the lab-scale model is P1 and the estimated power for the actual application is P2, then the ratio P2/P1 is:

|(A)|103|
|---|---|
|(B)|10+|
|(C)|10-|
|(D)|10+|
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q30

Consider two non-interacting tanks-in-series as shown in figure. Water enters TANK 1 at q cm³/s and drains down to TANK 2 by gravity at a rate kNh (cm³/s). Similarly, water drains from TANK 2 by gravity at a rate of kVhz (cm³/s) where h and hz represent levels of TANK 1 and TANK 2, respectively (see figure). Drain valve constant k=4 cm³/s and cross-sectional areas of the two tanks are A1 = 28 cm².

At steady state operation, the water inlet flow rate is q = 16 cm³/s. The transfer function relating the deviation variables hz (cm) to flow rate q (cm³/s) is:

(A) (568+1)²(B) (62s+1)²(C) (36s+1)²(D) (49s+1)²
9/16
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q31

Choose the option that correctly matches the appropriate transfer functions on the right with the step response curves on the left. The step input change occurs at time t=0.

|Step response|Transfer function|
|---|---|
|K(Es+1) K>0, s>0, t>0|s(ts +1)|
|K(Es+1) K>0, s>t>0|(Ts +1)|
|K K>0, t>0|(ts+1)|
|(IV) K(gs+1) K>0, s<0|(T,s+1)tzs+1)|

(A) P_I, Q-IV; R-I, S-I

(B) P_I, Q-IR-IV, S-I

(C) P_IV, Q-M; R-I, S-I

(D) P-III Q-I; R-IV, S-I

CH 10/16
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q.32

Containing 0.5 wt % of € in a mixer-sett 20 wt. % of C, respectively. If E and R denote the mass of the extract and raffinate phases, the resultant extract and raffinate phases contain 40 wt % and 100 kg of a feed containing 50 wt % a solute €C is contacted with 80 kg of a solvent respectively, the ratio ER is

- (A) 1/4
- (B) 1/2
- (C) 2/3
- (D)

# Q.33

The combination that correctly matches the process in Group-1 with the entries in Group-2

|Group-1|Group-2|
|---|---|
|I) Sulfur mining|P) Wulff process|
| |Sulfite process|
|I) Soda ash production|R) Solvay process|
| |I) Acetylene production|
| |IV) Pulp production|

- (A) P-I; Q-IV, R-II; S-I
- (B) P-III, Q-IV, R-II, S-I
- (C) P-IV, Q-I, R-I, S-III
- (D) P-I, Q-I, R-IV, S-III

# Q.34

If Xy and = are directions in a Cartesian coordinate system and i, and k are the respective unit vectors, the directional derivative of the function u(xy.-)=x -3yz at the point (2,0,-4) in the direction (i+j-2k)/ V is (rounded off to two decimal places)

# Q.35

Two unbiased dice are thrown: Each dice can show any number between 1 and 6. The probability that the sum of the outcomes of the two dice is divisible by 4 is (rounded off to two decimal places)

# Q.36

If the initial guess for the root is 0, the estimate of the root of the equation f(x) = € The Newton-Raphson method is used to approximate the root after two iterations is (rounded off to three decimal places)

# Q.37

Carbon monoxide (CO) reacts with hydrogen sulphide (HS) at a constant temperature of 800 K and a constant pressure of 2 bar as

CO + F [2S = COS + Hz

The Gibbs free energy of the reaction rxn 22972.3 J/mol and universal gas constant R=8.314 J/(mol K) Initially only 4 mol of HS and CO are present; the extent of the reaction (in mol) at equilibrium is (rounded off to two decimal places)
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q38

For given binary system at constant temperature and pressure, the molar volume (1n mhol) is given by: v=30xA + 20xB where xA and xB are the mole fractions of components A and B, respectively: The volume change of mixing Δmix (in m3/mol) at x = 0.5 is (rounded off to one decimal place).

# Q39

Consider a vessel containing steam at 180 °C. The initial steam quality is 0.5 and the initial volume of the vessel is m3. The vessel loses heat at a constant rate q under isobaric conditions so that the quality of steam reduces to 0.1 after 10 hours. The thermodynamic properties of water are:

- Specific volume:
- vf = 0.001127 m3/kg
- vg = 0.19405 m3/kg
- Specific internal energy:
- ug = 2583.7 kJ/kg
- uf = 762.08 kJ/kg
- Specific enthalpy:
- hg = 2778.2 kJ/kg
- hf = 763.21 kJ/kg

The rate of heat loss q (in kJ/hour) is (rounded off to the nearest integer).

# Q40

n-propane and n-butane. The condensate is a saturated liquid at 55 °C. An equimolar mixture of a fractionator recovers 95 mol % n-propane as the distillate. The Antoine equation is of the form:

ln(psat in bar) = A - (B / (T + C)) and the constants are provided below:

|Component|A|B|C|
|---|---|---|---|
|n-propane|9.1058|18|2.46|
|n-butane|9.0580|215|4.90|

Assuming Raoult's law, the condenser pressure (in bar) is (rounded off to one decimal place).

# Q41

A centrifugal pump is used to pump water from an inlet pressure of 105 Pa to an exit pressure of 2 x 105 Pa. The exit is at an elevation of 10 m above the pump. The cross-sectional area of the pipes at the pump is 10-3 m2 and the average velocity of the fluid is 10 m/s. Neglecting losses due to gravity (g = 10 m/s2), the power (in Watts) delivered by the pump is (rounded off to the nearest integer).

The solid sphere has a density of 1000 kg/m3 and its specific heat capacity is 500 J/(kg K). The density of the gas is 0.6 kg/m3. The heat transfer coefficient between the solid and gas is 50 W/(m2 K). The time (in seconds) needed for the sphere to reach 95 °C is (rounded off to the nearest integer).
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q.43

Stream A with specific heat capacity 2000 J/(kg K) is cooled from 90 °C to 45 °C in a concentric double pipe counter current heat exchanger having a heat transfer area of 8 m². The cold stream B of specific heat capacity CPB 1000 J/(kg K) enters the exchanger at a flow rate of 1 kg/s and 40 °C. The overall heat transfer coefficient U = 250 W/(m² K). Assume that the mean driving force is based on the arithmetic mean temperature difference, that is,

[ΔT]a = (TAin + TAout) - (TBm + TBout)

where Ti and Ti,out refer to the temperature of the ith stream (i = A, B) at the inlet and exit, respectively: The mass flow rate of stream A (in kg/s), is (rounded off to two decimal places).

# Q.44

A 20 cm diameter cylindrical solid pellet of a nuclear fuel with density 6000 kg/m³ and conductivity of 300 W/(m K) generates heat that is transferred to the surrounding coolant by convection such that the pellet wall temperature remains constant at 300 °C. Neglecting the axial and azimuthal dependence, the maximum temperature (in °C) in the pellet at steady state is (rounded off to the nearest integer).

# Q.45

In an isothermal non-ideal reactor, the concentration of the tracer in g/m³ at the reactor exit is measured. The C-curve measured in a tracer experiment is shown in the figure, where C(t) is the concentration at time t (in mol/m³).

The rate constants are k1 = 0.2 Liter/(mol min) and k2 = 0.3 Liter/(mol min). Pure A is fed to the reactor at a concentration of 2 mol/L (rounded off to the nearest integer). Using the segregated model, the percentage conversion in the reactor is.
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q.46

CSTR (Continuous-Stirred Tank Reactor) following reactor arrangement comprising an ideal first-order irreversible liquid phase reaction A → B (k = 0.1 min-1) is carried out under isothermal, steady state conditions in the CSTR and two ideal PFRs (Plug Flow Reactors). From the information in the figure, the volume of the CSTR (in Liters) is rounded off to the nearest integer.

|CA|0.5 mol/Liter|
|---|---|
|CA|1 mol/Liter|
|Flow Rate|100 Liter/min|
|PFR-1|40 Liter|
|PFR-2|60 Liter|
|CA|0.5 mol/Liter|

# Q.47

The elementary liquid-phase irreversible reactions A → B take place in an isothermal ideal CSTR (Continuous-Stirred Tank Reactor). Pure A is fed to the reactor at a concentration of 2 mol/VL. For the residence time that maximizes the exit concentration of B, the percentage yield of B, defined as net formation rate of B × 100 / consumption rate of A is (rounded off to the nearest integer).

# Q.48

The elementary irreversible gas-phase reaction A → B + C is carried out adiabatically in an ideal CSTR (Continuous-Stirred Tank Reactor) operating at 10 atm. Pure A enters the CSTR at a flow rate of 10 mol/s and a temperature of 450 K. Assume A, B, and C to be ideal gases. The specific heat capacity at constant pressure and heat of formation (Hi (i = A, B, C)) are:

|Component|Specific Heat Capacity (J/(mol K))|Heat of Formation (kJ/mol)|
|---|---|---|
|A|30|-90|
|B|10|-54|
|C|20|-45|

The reaction rate constant k (per second) = 0.133 exp(-E/(R*T)), where E = 31.4 kJ/mol and universal gas constant R = 0.082 L atm/(mol K) and 8.314 J/(mol K). The shaft work may be neglected in the analysis and specific heat capacities do not vary with temperature. All heats of formation are referenced to 273 K. The reactor volume (in Liters) for 75% conversion is (rounded off to the nearest integer).
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical Engineering

# Q.49

(rounded off to one decimal place) For the closed loop system shown in figure, the phase margin (in degrees) is

Ysp(s, K = 5) ~ 0.1s / (0.5s + 1)

# Q.50

Two spherical camphor particles of radius 20 cm and 5 cm, far away from each other, are undergoing sublimation in a stream of air. The mass transfer coefficient is proportional to 1/Vro where r(t) is the radius of the sphere at time t. Assume that the partial pressure of camphor far away from the surface of the particle is zero. Also, assume quasi-steady state identical ambient conditions, and negligible heat effects. If t1 and t2 are the times required for complete sublimation of the 20 cm and 5 cm camphor particles, respectively, the ratio t1/t2 is (rounded off to one decimal place)

# Q.51

An incoming binary gas mixture using pure solvent B. The mole ratio of A in the inlet gas is 0.02. The carrier gas flow rate is 50 km3/h. If the tower is operated at twice the minimum solvent flow rate, the mole ratio of A in the exit liquid stream is (rounded off to three decimal places)

# Q.52

A binary mixture with components A and B is to be separated in a distillation column to obtain 95 mol% A as the top product. The column feed is a saturated liquid containing 50 mol% A. Under the usual simplifying assumptions such as constant molal overflow, negligible heat loss, ideal trays, the minimum reflux ratio for this separation is (rounded off to one decimal place)
---
# GATE 2019

# Chemical

# Q53

Consider the reactor-separator-recycle shown in the figure. The reactor is an ideal process operating under steady state conditions as the reaction A + B → C occurs. Assume that there is no impurity in the product and recycle in the reactor that minimizes the recycle provided in the figure. The mole fraction of B (XB) is given. Other relevant information are:

|Pure A|Recycle A|Pure B|
|---|---|---|
|CSTR|[Holdup 10 m3]|A + B|
|I = 103 x 4 XB kmol/(h)|Product C|100 kmol/h|

# Q54

Consider two competing equipment A and B. For a compound interest rate of 10% per annum in order for equipment B to be the economically cheaper option, its minimum life (in years) is:

|Equipment|Capital Cost (Rs)|Yearly Operating Cost (Rs)|Equipment Life (Years)|
|---|---|---|---|
|A|80,000|20,000| |
|B|1,60,000|15,000| |

# Q55

A taxi-car is bought for Rs 10 lakhs. After paying all expenses and applicable taxes, the salvage value is zero. The expected yearly income is Rs 90,000 per annum. The discounted payback period (in years) is (rounded off to the next higher integer):

# END OF THE QUESTION PAPER

# CH

Engineering
---
|QNo.|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
| |MCQ|GA| | |
|3|MCQ|GA|B|1|
| |MCQ|GA| |1|
| |MCQ|GA| | |
| |MCQ|GA|B|2|
| |MCQ|GA| |2|
| |MCQ|GA|B|2|
| |MCQ|GA| |2|
|10|MCQ|GA| |2|
| |MCQ|CH| | |
|2|MCQ|CH|A| |
|3|MCQ|CH| | |
| |MCQ|CH| |1|
|5|MCQ|CH|A|1|
|6|MCQ|CH|D|1|
| |MCQ|CH|A|1|
|8|MCQ|CH| | |
|9|MCQ|CH| |1|
|10|MCQ|CH| | |
|11|MCQ|CH|D|1|
|12|MCQ|CH| |1|
|13|MCQ|CH|A| |
---
|QNo.|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|14|MCQ|CH| | |
|15|MCQ|CH|B| |
|16|MCQ|CH|D|1|
|17|MCQ|CH| |1|
|18|MCQ|CH|B| |
|19|MCQ|CH|A|1|
|20|MCQ|CH|B|1|
|21|MCQ|CH|D|1|
|22|NAT|CH|13.9 to 14.1|1|
|23|NAT|CH|0.19 to 0.21|1|
|24|NAT|CH|18.96 to 18.98|1|
|25|NAT|CH|0.009 to 0.011| |
|26|MCQ|CH|D|2|
|27|MCQ|CH|A|2|
|28|MCQ|CH|B|2|
|29|MCQ|CH|C|2|
|30|MCQ|CH|A|2|
|31|MCQ|CH|B|2|
|32|MCQ|CH| |2|
|33|MCQ|CH|B|2|
|34|NAT|CH|6.52 to 6.54|2|
|35|NAT|CH|0.24 to 0.26|2|
|36|NAT|CH|0.565 to 0.567|2|
---
|QNo.|Type|Section|Key|Marks|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|37|NAT|CH|0.27 to 0.30|2|
|38|NAT|CH|0.9 to 1.1|2|
|39|NAT|CH|810 to 840|2|
|40|NAT|CH|17.5 to 18.5|2|
|41|NAT|CH|1990 to 2010|2|
|42|NAT|CH|900 to 905|2|
|43|NAT|CH|0.30 to 0.32|2|
|44|NAT|CH|799 to 801|2|
|45|NAT|CH|63 to 67|2|
|46|NAT|CH|850 to 860|2|
|47|NAT|CH|65 to 68|2|
|48|NAT|CH|131 to 138|2|
|49|NAT|CH|45.3 to 45.5|2|
|50|NAT|CH|7.9 to 8.1|2|
|51|NAT|CH|0.004 to 0.006|2|
|52|NAT|CH|1.6 to 1.8|2|
|53|NAT|CH|0.09 to 0.11|2|
|54|NAT|CH|8 to 8|2|
|55|NAT|CH|5 to 5| |