# CH : CHEMICAL ENGINEERING

Duration: Three Hours

Maximum Marks: 100

Read the following instructions carefully.

1. Report discrepancy, if any. This question paper contains 24 printed pages including pages for rough work. Please check all pages and.
2. Write your registration number; your name and name of the examination centre at the specified locations on the right half of the Optical Response Sheet (ORS).
3. Using HB pencil, darken the appropriate bubble under each digit of your registration number and the corresponding letters for your paper code.
4. All questions in this paper are of objective type.
5. Questions must be answered on Optical Response Sheet (ORS) by darkening the appropriate bubble using HB pencil against the question number on the left hand side of the ORS. Each question has only one correct answer. In case you wish to change an answer; erase the old answer completely. More than one answer bubbled against a question will be treated as an incorrect response.
6. Questions 21 through 60 are 2-mark questions. There are a total of 60 questions carrying 100 marks. Questions 1 through 20 are 1-mark questions.
7. Questions 51 through 56 (3 pairs) are common data questions and question pairs (57, 58) and (59, 60) are linked answer questions. The answer to the second question of the above 2 pairs depends on the answer to the first question of the pair. If the first question in the linked pair is wrongly answered or is un-attempted, then the answer to the second question in the pair will not be evaluated.
8. Questions not attempted will carry zero marks.
9. Wrong answers will carry negative marks. For Q.1 to Q.20, ¼ mark will be deducted for each wrong answer. For Q.21 to Q.56, ¼ mark will be deducted for each wrong answer: There is no negative marking for Q.58 and Q.60.
10. Calculator (without data connectivity) is allowed in the examination hall.
11. Charts, graph sheets or tables are NOT allowed in the examination hall.
12. Rough work can be done on the question paper itself. Additionally, blank pages are given at the end of the question paper for rough work.
---
# 2009

# Q.1-Q.20 carry one mark each.

# Q.1

The direction of largest increase of the function xy - x2 at the point (1,1) is

- (A) 3i + j
- (B) 6 + 3j
- (C) -i + 3j
- (D) -i - 3j

# Q.2

The modulus of the complex number i is

- (A) 1
- (B) √2
- (C) 1
- (D) √2

# Q.3

The system of linear equations Ax = 0, where A is an n x n matrix, has a non-trivial solution ONLY if

- (A) rank of A > n
- (B) rank of A = n
- (C) rank of A < n
- (D) A is an identity matrix

# Q.4

A dehumidifier (shown below) is used to completely remove water vapor from air:

Wet air
Dry air

Dehumidifier

Water

Which ONE of the following statements is TRUE?

- (A) Water is the ONLY tie component
- (B) Air is the ONLY tie component
- (C) BOTH water and air are tie components
- (D) There are NO tie components

# Q.5

Dehydrogenation of ethane; CxHy (g) + CH4 (g) + H2 (g), is carried out in a continuous stirred tank reactor (CSTR). The feed is pure ethane. If the reactor exit stream contains unconverted ethane along with the products, then the number of degrees of freedom for the CSTR is

- (A) 1
- (B) 2
- (C) 3
- (D) 4

# Q.6

Closed system; Which ONE of the following is TRUE for internal energy (U) and Gibbs free energy (G) of the gas at the two states?

An ideal gas at temperature T; and pressure P is compressed isothermally to pressure P2 (> P) in a closed system.

- (A) U1 = U2, G1 > G2
- (B) U1 = U2, G1 < G2
- (C) U1 > U2, G1 = G2
- (D) U1 < U2, G1 = G2
---
# 2009

# Q.7

superficial velocity (V) of the fluid as Under fully turbulent flow conditions, the frictional pressure drop across a packed bed varies with the (A) V - I (B) V (C) V3/2 (D) V2

# 0.8

(Re) as For a mixing tank operating in the laminar regime, the power number varies with the Reynolds number (A) Re-1/4 (B) Re4n (C) Re (D) Re-1

# 0.9

During the transient convective cooling of a solid object, Biot number 7 0 indicates (A) uniform temperature throughout the object (B) negligible convection at the surface of the object (C) significant thermal resistance within the object (D) significant temperature gradient within the object

# Q.10

The Prandtl number of a fluid is the ratio of (A) thermal diffusivity to momentum diffusivity (B) momentum diffusivity to thermal diffusivity (C) conductive resistance to convective resistance (D) thermal diffusivity to kinematic viscosity

# Q.11

diffusion coefficient (D) of the diffusing species as According to the penetration theory of mass transfer; the mass transfer coefficient (k) varies with (A) D (B) D-1n (C) Dln (D) DBn

# 0.12

The ratio of the liquid to gas flow rate in a counter-current gas absorption column is increased, at otherwise identical conditions. Which ONE of the following statements is TRUE? (A) The operating line shifts towards the equilibrium curve (B) The operating line shifts away from the equilibrium curve (C) The concentration of the absorbed species increases in the exit liquid stream (D) The operating line does not shift

# Q.13

For a homogeneous reaction system; where Cj is the concentration of j at time t, Nj is the number of moles of j at time t, V is the reaction volume at time t, t is the reaction time. The rate of reaction for species j is defined as (A) dCi/dt (B) dCi (C) 1 dNi (D) ~ (0 dt dNi/dt V dt)
---
# 2009

# Q.14

The half-life of a first order liquid phase reaction is 30 seconds. Then the rate constant, in min is

(A) 0.0231
(B) 0.602
(C) 1.386
(D) 2.0

# Q.15

For a solid-catalyzed reaction, the Thiele modulus is proportional to

|(A) diffusion rate|(B) intrinsic reaction rate|
|---|---|
|(C) intrinsic reaction rate|(D) intrinsic reaction rate diffusion rate|

# Q.16

Which ONE of the following sensors is used for the measurement of temperature in a combustion process (T > 1800 "C)?

(A) Type J thermocouple
(B) Thermistor
(C) Resistance temperature detector
(D) Pyrometer

# Q.17

The roots of the characteristic equation of an underdamped second order system are

(A) real, negative and equal
(B) real, negative and unequal
(C) real, positive and unequal
(D) complex conjugates

# Q.18

Annual operating cost is Rs. 2.0 lakhs. The annualized cost of the plant (in lakhs of Rs:) is

(A) 1.8
(B) 2.6
(C) 3.5
(D) 4.3

# Q.19

In petroleum refining operations, the process used for converting paraffins and naphthenes to aromatics is

(A) catalytic reforming
(B) catalytic cracking
(C) hydrocracking
(D) alkylation

# Q.20

The active component of catalysts used in steam reforming of methane to produce synthesis gas is

(A) Nickel
(B) Iron
(C) Platinum
(D) Palladium
---
# 2009

# Q. 21 to Q 60 carry two marks each:

# Q.21

The value of the limit

lim (x-T/2) cos X

is

(A)
(B) 0
(C) 1
(D)

# Q.22

The general solution of the differential equation

dx/dy + 6y = 0

with C1 and C2 as constants of integration, is

(A) C e3x + C2 e7x(B) C e3x + C2 e2x(C) C e3x + C2 e4x(D) C e7x + C2 e2x

# Q.23

Using the residue theorem; the value of the integral (counterclockwise)

&#x2728; 8-72 dz

around a circle with center at z = 0 and radius = 8 (where z is a complex number and i=√-1), is

(A) -20t i
(B) -40t
(C) -40t i
(D) 40t i

# Q.24

Consider the integral

&#x2728; Mf(2xi + Zyj + Szk) ndS

away from the origin: Using a radius = 3 with center at the origin, and surface unit normal n pointing over the surface of a sphere

the Gauss divergence theorem; the value of this integral is

(A) -180t
(B) 0
(C) 90t
(D) 180t

# Q.25

Using the trapezoidal rule and 4 equal intervals (n = 4), the calculated value of the integral (rounded to the first place of decimal)

&#x2728; f sin θ dθ

is

(A) 1.7
(B) 1.9
(C) 2.0
(D) 2.1
---
# 2009

The eigenvalues of matrix A = 4 are 5 and -3. Then the eigenvalues of -2A + 31 (is a 2x2 identity matrix) are:

|(A)|-7 and 5|
|---|---|
|(B)|7 and -5|
|(C)|L and 1|
|(D)|1 and 1|

# Q.27

A fair die is rolled. Let R denote the event of obtaining a number less than or equal to 5 and S denote the event of obtaining an odd number: Then which ONE of the following about the probability (P) is TRUE?

|(A)|P(R|S) = 1|
|---|---|
|(B)|P(R|S) = 0|
|(C)|P(S|R) = 1|
|(D)|P(S|R) = 0|

# Q.28

Pure water (stream W) is to be obtained from a feed containing 5 wt % salt using a desalination unit as shown below.

|Feed (F)|Mixed feed|Effluent|
|---|---|---|
|5 wt % salt|10 wt % salt|Desalination unit|
|Pure water (W) 0 % salt|Pure water (W) 0 % salt|Pure water (W) 0 % salt|

If the overall recovery of pure water (through stream W) is 0.75 kg/kg feed, then the recycle ratio (RF) is:

|(A)|0.25|
|---|---|
|(B)|0.5|
|(C)|0.75|
|(D)|1.0|

# Q.29

For a binary mixture at constant temperature and pressure, which ONE of the following relations between activity coefficient (Yi) and mole fraction (xi) is thermodynamically consistent?

|(A)|In Yi = -1 + 2xi - 4xi, In Y2 = 2|
|---|---|
|(B)|In Yi = -1 + 2xi - xi, In Y2 = 4|
|(C)|In Y = -1 + 2(1 - xi), In Y2 = -1xi|
|(D)|In Y = -1 + 2(1 - 1), In Y2 = -1|
---
# 2009

# Q.30

Two identical reservoirs, open at the top; are drained through pipes attached to the bottom of the tanks as shown below. The two drain pipes are of the same length; but of different diameters (Di > Dz).

Assuming the flow to be steady and laminar in both drain pipes, if the volumetric flow rate in the larger pipe is 16 times of that in the smaller pipe, the ratio D /Dz is

|(A)|2|
|---|---|
|(B)|4|
|(C)|8|
|(D)|16|

# Q.31

For an incompressible flow, the x- and y- components of the velocity vector are

Vx = 2(x + y); Vy = 3(y + 2) where x, y, z are in metres and velocities are in m/s. Then the z-component of the velocity vector (Vz) for the boundary condition vz = 0 at z = 0 is

|(A)|52|
|---|---|
|(B)|-5z|
|(C)|2x + 32|
|(D)|-2x - 32|

# Q.32

Newtonian liquid (density: 1500 kg/m³) is 100 µm/s. If the particle Reynolds number is small and the value of acceleration due to gravity is 9.81 m/s², then the viscosity of the liquid (in Pa.s) is

|(A)|100|
|---|---|
|(B)|196.2|
|(C)|245.3|
|(D)|490.5|

# Q.33

A well-insulated hemispherical furnace (radius = 1 m) is shown below:

The self-view factor of radiation for the curved surface 2 is

|(A)|1/4|
|---|---|
|(B)|1/2|
|(C)|2/3|
|(D)|3/4|
---
# 2009

# Q.34

A double-pipe heat exchanger is to be designed to heat 4 kg/s of a cold feed from 20 to 40 °C using hot stream available at 160 °C and a flow rate of 1 kg/s. The two streams have equal specific heat capacities and the overall heat transfer coefficient of the heat exchanger is 640 W/m²·K. Then the ratio of the heat transfer areas required for the co-current to counter-current modes of operation is:

- (A) 0.73
- (B) 0.92
- (C) 1.085
- (D) 1.25

# Q.35

If the thickness of layer P is doubled (Case 2), then the rate of heat transfer (assuming 1-D conduction) is reduced by:

For the composite wall shown below (Case 1), the steady state interface temperature is 180 °C.

|Case 1|Case 2|
|---|---|
|P|P|
|500 °C|500 °C|
|180 °C|20 °C|
|20 °C| |

- (A) 20%
- (B) 40%
- (C) 50%
- (D) 70%

# Q.36

If the diffusive flux at a distance r = 3 cm from the center of the sphere is 27 mol/cm²·s, the diffusive flux (in mol/cm²·s) at a distance r = 9 cm is:

- (A) 1
- (B) 3
- (C) 9
- (D) 27

# Q.37

The q-line in the McCabe-Thiele plot is:

The feed to a binary distillation column has 40 mol % vapor and 60 mol % liquid. Then, the slope of:

- (A) -15
- (B) -0.6
- (C) 0.6
- (D) 15
---
# 2009

# Q.38

The equilibrium moisture curve for a solid is shown below

|1.0|1.0|
|---|
|H|Moisture content (g water/kg dry solid)|

below; Group I lists the types of moisture, and Group II represents the region in the graph above:

|GROUP I|GROUP II|
|---|---|
|P. Equilibrium moisture|1|
|Q. Bound moisture|2|
|R. Unbound moisture|3|
|S. Free moisture|4|

Which ONE of the following is the correct match?

- (A) P-1, Q-2, R-3, S-4
- (B) P-1, Q-3, R-4, S-2
- (C) P-1, Q-4, R-2, S-3
- (D) P-1, Q-2, R-4, S-3

# Q.39

The liquid-phase reaction A > B is conducted in an adiabatic plug flow reactor:

Data:

- Inlet concentration of A = 4.0 kmol/m³
- Density of reaction mixture (independent of temperature) = 1200 kg/m³
- Average heat capacity of feed stream (independent of temperature) = 2000 J/kg K
- Heat of reaction (independent of temperature) = 120 kJ/mol of A reacting

If the maximum allowable temperature in the reactor is 800 K, then the feed temperature (in K) should not exceed:

- (A) 400
- (B) 500
- (C) 600
- (D) 700
---
# 2009

# Q.40

An isothermal pulse test is conducted on a reactor and the variation of the outlet tracer concentration with time is shown below:

| |1|10|
|---|---|---|
|8| | |
|1| | |

(0,0) 5 10

Time (min)

The mean residence time of the fluid in the reactor (in minutes) is:

- (A) 5.0
- (B) 7.5
- (C) 10.0
- (D) 15.0

# Q.41

The inverse Laplace transform of 2/(5s^2 + 3s + 1) is:

- (A) e^(t^2) - e
- (B) 2e^(-t^2) - e^(-t)
- (C) e - 2e^(-t/2)
- (D) e^t - e^(-t/2)

# Q.42

The characteristic equation of a closed loop system using a proportional controller with gain Kc is:

12s^3 + 19s^2 + 8s + 1 + K = 0

At the onset of instability, the value of Kc is:

- (A) 35/3
- (B) 10
- (C) 25/3
- (D) 20/3

# Q.43

The block diagram for a control system is shown below:

R(s) ----> E(s) ----> Kc = 2 ----> U(s) ----> Y(s)

(25 + 1)(35 + 1)

For a unit step change in the set point, R(s), the steady state offset in the output Y(s) is:

- (A) 0.2
- (B) 0.3
- (C) 0.4
- (D) 0.5
---
# 2009

# Q.44

For a tank of cross-sectional area 100 cm2 and inlet flow rate (Q in cm3/s), the outlet flow rate (Qo in cm3/s) is related to the liquid height (H in cm) as Qo = 3√H (see figure below).

Then the transfer function F62 (overbar indicates deviation variables) of the process around the steady-state point; Qis = 18 cm3/s and His = 36 cm, is

(A) 100 s + 1
(B) 200 s + 1
(C) 300 s + 1
(D) 400 s + 1

# Q.45

A column costs Rs; 5.0 lakhs and has a useful life of 10 years: Using the double declining balance depreciation method, the book value of the unit at the end of five years (in lakhs of Rs.) is

(A) 1.21
(B) 1.31
(C) 1.64
(D) 2.05
---
# 2009

# Q.46

An equi-molar mixture of four hydrocarbons (1, 2, 3, 4) is to be separated into high purity individual components. Four possible schemes are shown below using a sequence of simple distillation columns (one overhead and one bottom stream).

|Scheme P|Scheme Q|
|---|---|
|1,2,3|1,2|
|1,2,3,4|1,2,3,4|
|2| |
| |3,4|

|Scheme R|Scheme S|
|---|---|
|1,2,3,4|1,2,3,4|
|3| |
|2,3,4| |

|Component|Ki|
|---|---|
|2|6|
|3|2.5|
|4|1.1|

Using the Ki (= Y / x) values given above; the optimal scheme is (A) P (B) Q (C) R (D) S
---
# 2009

# Q.47

Match the equipment in Group I to the internals in Group II

|GROUP I|GROUP II|
|---|---|
|P Centrifugal pump|1. Baffle|
|Q. Distillation column|2. Impeller|
|R Heat exchanger|4 Tray|
| |3. Volute|

(A) P-2, Q-1, R-4

(B) P-2, Q-4, R-3

(C) P-1, Q-3, R-4

(D) P-4, Q-3, R-1

# Q.48

Match the product in Group I with the name of the process in Group II

|GROUP I|GROUP II|
|---|---|
|P: Sodium carbonate|1. Haber|
|Q. Ammonia|2. Solvay|
|R. Sulphuric acid|3. Fischer-Tropsch|
| |4. Contact|

(A) P-2, Q-1, R-4

(B) P-4, Q-1, R-2

(C) P-3, Q-4, R-2

(D) P-2, Q-1, R-3

# Q.49

Match the product in Group I to the raw material in Group II

|GROUP I|GROUP II|
|---|---|
|P. Ethylene|1. Natural gas|
|Q. Methanol|2. Synthesis gas|
|R. Phthalic anhydride|3. Naphtha|
| |4. Naphthalene|

(A) P-1, Q-2, R-3

(B) P-2, Q-1, R-4

(C) P-3, Q-1, R-4

(D) P-3, Q-2, R-4

# Q.50

Match the unit process in Group I with the industry in Group II

|GROUP I|GROUP II|
|---|---|
|P: Steam cracking|1. Petroleum refining|
|Q. Hydrocracking|2. Petrochemicals|
|R. Condensation|3. Polymers|
| |4. Soaps and detergents|

(A) P-1, Q-2, R-3

(B) P-2, Q-3, R-3

(C) P-1, Q-2, R-4

(D) P-2, Q-1, R-3
---
# 2009

# Common Data Questions

# Common Data for Questions S1 and S2

An ideal gas with molar heat capacity Cp = 5 R (where R = 8.314 J/mol·K) is compressed adiabatically from 1 bar and 300 K to pressure Pz in a closed system: The final temperature after compression is 600 K and the mechanical efficiency of compression is 50%.

# Q.51

The work required for compression (in kJ/mol) is

(A) 3.74
(B) 6.24
(C) 7.48
(D) 12.48

# Q.52

The final pressure Pz (in bar) is

(A) 234
(B) 2514
(C) 232
(D) 2522

# Common Data for Questions 53 and 54:

A slab of thickness L with one side (x = 0) insulated and the other side (x = L) maintained at a constant temperature To is shown below.

Insulated wall

To

X=0     X=L

A uniformly distributed internal heat source produces heat in the slab at the rate of $ W/m. Assume the heat conduction to be steady and 1-D along the x-direction.

# Q.53

The maximum temperature in the slab occurs at x equal to

(A) 0
(B) L/4
(C) L/2
(D) L

# Q.54

The heat flux at x = L is

(A) 0
(B) $ L/4
(C) $ L/2
(D) $ L
---
# 2009

# Common Data for Questions 55 and 56

A flash distillation drum (see figure below) is used to separate a methanol-water mixture. The mole fraction of methanol in the feed is 0.5, and the feed flow rate is 1000 kmol/hr. The feed is preheated in a heater with heat duty Qh and is subsequently flashed in the drum. The flash drum can be assumed to be an equilibrium stage, operating adiabatically. The equilibrium relation between the mole fractions of methanol in the vapor and liquid phases is y = 4x. The ratio of distillate to feed flow rate is 0.5.

|Feed|1000 kmol/hr|
|---|---|
|50 mol % methanol|Preheater|
|Distillate|Flash Drum|
|Bottoms| |

# Q.55

The mole fraction of methanol in the distillate is

- (A) 0.2
- (B) 0.7
- (C) 0.8
- (D) 0.9

# Q.56

If the enthalpy of the distillate with reference to the feed is 3000 kJ/kmol, and the enthalpy of the bottoms with reference to the feed is ~1000 kJ/kmol, the heat duty of the preheater (Qh in kJ/hr) is

- (A) -2xlog
- (B) ~IxlO'
- (C) Ixlo6
- (D) 2x10^6

# Linked Answer Questions

# Statement for Linked Answer Questions 57 and 58:

A free jet of water is emerging from a nozzle (diameter 75 mm) attached to a pipe (diameter 225 mm) as shown below.

The velocity of water at point A is 18 m/s. Neglect friction in the pipe and nozzle. Use g = 9.81 m/s² and density of water = 1000 kg/m³.
---
# 2009

# Q0.57

The velocity of water at the tip of the nozzle (in m/s) is

(A) 13.4
(B) 18.0
(C) 23.2
(D) 27.1

# 0.58

The gauge pressure (in kPa) at point B is

(A) 80.0
(B) 100.0
(C) 239.3
(D) 367.6

# Statement for Linked Answer Questions 59 and 60:

(CSTR) The inlet concentration of A is 8.0 gmolliter: At a space time of 5 minutes, the concentration of A at the exit of CSTR is 4.0 gmol/liter: The kinetics of the reaction is

~rA = kCAs liter.min gmol

A plug flow reactor of the same volume is added in series after the existing CSTR.

# 0.59

The rate constant (k) for this reaction at 50 "C is

|(A) 0.2/ gmol|0.5| | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | |(B) 0.2|liter|min| | |
|(C) 0.4( gmol|0.5|min|liter| | | | |
| | | |(D) 0.4|liter|0.5|min|gmol|

# Q.60

The concentration of A (in gmolliter) at the exit of the plug flow reactor is

(A) 0.5
(B) 1.0
(C) 2.0
(D) 2.5

END OF THE QUESTION PAPER

CH 16/24