# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# CH : CHEMICAL ENGINEERING

Duration: Three Hours

Maximum Marks: 150

# Read the following instructions carefully

1. This question paper contains 24 printed pages including pages for rough work: Please check all pages and report discrepancy, if any.
2. Write your registration number, your name and name of the examination centre at the specified locations on the right half of the ORS:
3. Using HB pencil, darken the appropriate bubble under each digit of your registration number and the letters corresponding to your paper code.
4. All the questions in this question paper are of objective type.
5. Questions must be answered on Objective Response Sheet (ORS) by darkening the appropriate bubble (marked A, B, C, D) using HB pencil against the question number on the left hand side of the ORS. Each question has only one correct answer. In case you wish to change an answer, erase the old answer completely. More than one answer bubbled against a question will be treated as wrong answer.
6. Questions 1 through 20 are 1-mark questions and questions 21 through 85 are 2-mark questions.
7. Questions 71 through 73 is one set of common data questions, questions 74 and 75 is another pair of common data questions. The question pairs (76, 77), (78, 79), (80, 81), (82, 83) and (84, 85) are questions with linked answers. The answer to the second question of the above pairs will depend on the answer to the first question of the pair. If the first question in the linked pair is wrongly answered or is un-attempted, then the answer to the second question in the pair will not be evaluated.
8. Un-attempted questions will carry zero marks.
9. NEGATIVE MARKING: For Q.1 to Q.20, 0.25 mark will be deducted for each wrong answer. For Q.21 to Q.75, 0.5 mark will be deducted for each wrong answer. For the pairs of questions with linked answers, there will be negative marks only for wrong answer to the first question; i.e. for Q. 76, Q.78, Q.80, Q.82 and Q.84, 0.5 mark will be deducted for each wrong answer. There is no negative marking for Q.77, Q.79, Q.81, Q.83 and Q.85.
10. Calculator without data connectivity is allowed in the examination hall.
11. Charts, graph sheets and tables are NOT allowed in the examination hall.
12. Rough work can be done on the question paper itself: Additional blank pages are given at the end of the question paper for rough work.

CH 1/24
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# Q.1-Q.20 carry one mark each:

# Q.1

Which ONE of the following is NOT an integrating factor for the differential equation

x dy + y dx = 0

- (A) 2
- (B) 3
- (C) 1
- (D) (x+y)

# Q.2

Which ONE of the following is NOT a solution of the differential equation

d²y/dx² + y = 1?

- (A) y=1
- (B) y=1+cosx
- (C) y=1+sin x
- (D) y=2+sin x + cosx

# Q.3

The limit of sin x as x approaches 0 is

- (A) -1
- (B) 0
- (C) 1
- (D) 0

# Q.4

The unit normal vector to the surface of the sphere x² + y² + z² = 1 at the point (3z0, J2) is

(i, j, k are unit normal vectors in the Cartesian coordinate system)

- (A) √2
- (B) 7it 1k
- (C) √2 0Ji + 5i + Jk

# Q.5

A nonlinear function f(x) is defined in the interval -1.2 < x < 4 as illustrated in the figure below. 0 is solved for x within this interval by using the Newton-Raphson iterative scheme. Among the initial guesses (H1, H2, H3, and H4), the guess that is likely to lead to the root most rapidly is

- (A) H1
- (B) H2
- (C) H3
- (D) H4
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# 0.6

For a Carnot refrigerator operating between 40°C and 25°C, the coefficient of performance is

- (A) 1
- (B) 1.67
- (C) 19.88
- (D) 39.74

# 0.7

The work done by one mole of a van der Waals fluid undergoing reversible isothermal expansion from initial volume Vi to final volume Vf is

- (A) RT ln(Vf/Vi)
- (B) RT ln(Vf - b / Vi - b)
- (C) RT ln((Vf - b) / (Vi - b))
- (D) RT ln(Vf / Vi) + a(Vf - Vi)

# 0.8

For a system containing species P, Q and R, composition at point k on the ternary plot is

| | | |0|P| |100|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | |50|50|100| |
| | |Q|50|100|R| |

- (A) 62.5% P, 12.5% Q, 25% R
- (B) 25% P, 62.5% Q, 12.5% R
- (C) 12.5% P, 62.5% Q, 25% R
- (D) 12.5% P, 25% Q, 62.5% R

# Q.9

Three containers are filled with water up to the same height as shown. The pressures at the bottom of the containers are denoted as P1, P2, and P3. Which ONE of the following relationships is true?

- (A) P1 > P2 > P3
- (B) P2 > P1 > P3
- (C) P1 > P2 = P3
- (D) P1 = P2 = P3

# Q.10

Losses for flow through valves and fittings are expressed in terms of

- (A) drag coefficient
- (B) equivalent length of a straight pipe
- (C) shape factor
- (D) roughness factor
---
# Main Paper

# 2008

standardized test is performed In the testing process; when the compressor is under operation; "shut off" term signifies

|Q.11|To determine the performance of a compressor;|
|---|---|
|(A)|maximum flow|
|(B)|zero flow|
|(C)|steady flow|
|(D)|intermittent flow|

|Q.12|is proportional to (NRe is Reynolds number)| | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| |Given & pipe of diameter D the entrance length necessary to achieve fully developed laminar flow|D| | | | | |
| | |(B)| |(C)|D NRe| | |
| | | | |(D)| |Npe| |
|(A)|DNRe| |Npe| | | | |

|Q.13|incompressible filter cake and the specific surface area (S.) of the particles being filtered is given| | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|For laminar flow conditions; the relationship between the pressure drop (APc) across an| | | | | | | | | | | | |
|(A)|APc is proportional to So| | | | | | | | | | | |
|(B)|APc is proportional to 1/So| | | | | | | | | | | |
|(C)|APc is proportional to Sa| | | | | | | | | | | |
|(D)|APc is proportional to 1/S;| | | | | | | | | | | |

|Q.14|The power required for size reduction in crushing is|
|---|---|
|(A)|proportional to Surface energy of the material|
|(B)|proportional to Surface energy of the material|
|(C)|proportional to Surface energy of the material|
|(D)|independent of the Surface energy of the material|

|Q.15|Transient three-dimensional heat conduction is governed by ONE of the following differential equations (a thermal conductivity and volumetric rate of heat generation)|
|---|---|
|(A)|L8T = VT + w k|
|(B)|L8T_VT + V|
|(C)|LaT _V2T + w k|
|(D)|G8 0 = V2 T + k|

|Q.16|liquid composition and the exit gas composition are maintained constant: In order to increase the absorption factor|
|---|---|
| |the liquid flow rate should decrease|
| |the gas flow rate should increase|
| |the slope of the equilibrium line should decrease|
| |the slope of the equilibrium line should increase|
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

0.17 A species ( A) reacts on a solid catalyst to produce R and S as follows:

1. 4v R &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; rR = k C4
2. A-S &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; rs = k2 Ch

Assume film resistance to mass transfer is negligible: The ratio of instantaneous fractional yield of R in the presence of pore diffusion to that in the absence of pore diffusion is

- (A) 1
- (B) >1
- (C) <1
- (D) Zero

0.18 For the case of single lump-sum capital expenditure of Rs 10 crores which generates a constant annual cash flow of Rs: 2 crores in each subsequent year; the payback period (in years), if the scrap value of the capital outlay is zero is

- (A) 10
- (B) 20
- (C) 1
- (D) 5

Q.19 The relation between capital rate of return ratio (CRR); net present value (NPV) and maximum cumulative expenditure (MCE) is

- (A) CRR &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; NPV
- (B) CRR = MCE
- &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; NPV
- (C) CRR = NPV x MCE
- (D) CRR &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; MCE
- &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (NPV + MCE)

Q.20 Which ONE of the following is NOT a major constituent of crude oil?

- (A) Paraffins
- (B) Olefins
- (C) Naphthenes
- (D) Aromatics

Q.21 to Q.75 carry two marks each

0.21 Which ONE of the following transformations {u = f (y) } reduces dy + Ay' + By = 0 to a linear differential equation? (A and B are positive constants)

- (A) u = y - 3
- (B) u = y - 2
- (C) u = y - 1
- (D) u = y2

0.22 The Laplace transform of the function f(t) = t sin t is

- (A) (s2 + 1)2
- (B) S
- (C) 2 (s2 + 1)
- (D) (s - 1)2 + 1

Q.23 f(xi + yj) ~n dA evaluated over the surface of cube

The value of the surface integral having sides of length a is (n is unit normal vector)

- (A) 0
- (B) &nbsp;
- (C) 2a'
- (D) 3a'
---
# Main Paper

# 2008

# 0.24

The first four terms of the Taylor series expansion of COSX about the point x = 0 are

- (A) 1 + x + 2/2!
- (B) 1 - x + 2/2!
- (C) 1 - 2/4! + x⁴/6!
- (D) x + 3/7!

# Q.25

If A = 1 2 then the eigenvalues of 73 are

- (A) 5, 4
- (B) 3, -1
- (C) 9, -1
- (D) 27, -1

# 0.26

An analytic function W(z) is defined as W = u + iv; where i = √-1 and z = x + iy. If the real part is given by u = y + 2, then w(z) is

- (A) 1
- (B) 2
- (C) 1
- (D) 1

# 0.27

The normal distribution is given by

f(x) = (1/√(2π)) exp(-x²/2) for -∞ < x < ∞

The points of inflexion to the normal curve are

- (A) x = -σ, +σ
- (B) x = μ + σ, μ - σ
- (C) x = μ + 2σ, μ - 2σ
- (D) x = μ + 3σ, μ - 3σ

# 0.28

Using Simpson's 1/3 rule and FOUR equally spaced intervals (n = 4), estimate the value of the integral

∫04 cos3(x) dx

- (A) 0.3887
- (B) 0.4384
- (C) 0.5016
- (D) 0.5527
---
# 2008 MAIN PAPER

# Q.29

The following differential equation is to be solved numerically by the Euler's explicit method.

dy/dx = xy - 1.2y with y(0) = 1

A step size of 0.1 is used. The solution for Y at x=0.1 is

- (A) 0.880
- (B) 0.905
- (C) 1.000
- (D) 1.100

# Q.30

The Poisson distribution is given by P(r = m) = (e^(-m) * m^r) / r!

The first moment about the origin for this distribution is

- (A) 0
- (B) m
- (C) Ilm
- (D) m²

# Q.31

Air (79 mole % nitrogen and 21 mole % oxygen) is passed over a catalyst at high temperature. Oxygen completely reacts with nitrogen as shown below:

0.5 N₂(g) + 0.5 O₂(g) → NO

0.5 N₂(g) + O₂(g) → 5 NO₂(g)

The molar ratio of NO to NO₂ in the product stream is 2:1. The fractional conversion of nitrogen is

- (A) 0.13
- (B) 0.20
- (C) 0.27
- (D) 0.40

# Q.32

The stream contains hydrated crystals Na₂SO₄·10H₂O in equilibrium with a 20 wt% Na₂SO₄ solution:

A 35 wt% Na₂SO₄ solution in water; initially at 50°C, is fed to a crystallizer at 20°C. The product

The molecular weights of Na₂SO₄ and Na₂SO₄·10H₂O are 142 and 322, respectively. The feed rate of the 35% solution required to produce 500 kg/hr of hydrated crystals is

- (A) 403 kg/hr
- (B) 603 kg/hr
- (C) 803 kg/hr
- (D) 1103 kg/hr

# Q.33

Superheated steam at 450°C and 1 bar (enthalpy 3382.4 kJ/kg) is mixed adiabatically with 600 kg/hr of saturated steam at 350°C and 1 bar (enthalpy 2675.4 kJ/kg). The flow rate of the product is

- (A) 711 kg/hr
- (B) 111 kg/hr
- (C) 1451 kg/hr
- (D) 2051 kg/hr

# Q.34

Carbon black is produced by decomposition of methane:

CH₄(g) → C(s) + 2H₂(g)

The single pass conversion of methane is 60%. If fresh feed is pure methane and 25% of the methane exiting the reactor is recycled, then the molar ratio of fresh feed stream to recycle stream is

- (A) 0.9
- (B) 9
- (C) 10
- (D) 9

# Q.35

The molar volume (v) of a binary mixture of species 1 and 2 having mole fractions X₁ and X₂ respectively is given by:

v = 220 X₁ + 180 X₂ + X₁ X₂ (90 X₁ + 50 X₂)

The partial molar volume of species 2 at X₂ = 0.3 is

- (A) 183.06
- (B) 212.34
- (C) 229.54
- (D) 256.26
---
# Main Paper

# Q. 36

The standard Gibbs free energy change and enthalpy change at 25°C for the liquid phase reaction

CH3COOH + C2H5OH &rarr; CH3COOC2H5 + H2O

are given as ΔG'298 = 4650 J/mol and ΔH'298 = -3640 J/mol. If the solution is ideal and enthalpy change is assumed to be constant; the equilibrium constant at 95°C is

- (A) 0.65
- (B) 4.94
- (C) 6.54
- (D) 8.65

# Q. 37

A cylindrical vessel with hemispherical ends is filled with water as shown in the figure. The head space is pressurized to a gauge pressure of 40 kN/m2. The vertical force F (in kN) tending to lift the top dome and the absolute pressure P (in kN/m2) at the bottom of the vessel are

g = 9.8 m/s2, density of water = 1000 kg/m3

Figure not to scale

- (A) F = 83.6 ; P = 64.5
- (B) F = 83.6 ; P = 165.8
- (C) F = 125.7 ; P = 64.5
- (D) F = 125.7 ; P = 165.8

# Q. 38

A pump draws oil (specific gravity 0.8) from a storage tank and discharges it to an overhead tank. The mechanical energy delivered by the pump to the fluid is 50 J/kg. The velocities at the suction and the discharge points of the pump are 1 m/s and 7 m/s, respectively. Neglecting friction losses and assuming kinetic energy correction factor to be unity, the pressure developed by the pump (in kN/m2) is

- (A) 19.2
- (B) 20.8
- (C) 40
- (D) 80

# Q. 39

Match the following

|GROUP 1|GROUP 2|
|---|---|
|(P) Euler number|(1) Viscous force / Inertial force|
|(Q) Froude number|(2) Pressure force / Inertial force|
|(R) Weber number|(3) Inertial force / Gravitational force|

- (A) P-1, Q-2, R-3
- (B) P-2, Q-3, R-4
- (C) P-3, Q-2, R-1
- (D) P-4, Q-3, R-2
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# Q.40

A steady flow field of an incompressible fluid is given by V=(Ax+By)i-Ayj and X, y are in meters. The magnitude of the acceleration (in m/s²) of a fluid particle at (1,2) is where A = 1 s⁻¹.

- (A) 1
- (B) V²
- (C) V₅
- (D) V₁₀

# Q.41

Settling in a fluid of density p. Assuming free settling under turbulent flow conditions, the ratio of the terminal settling velocity of particle A to that of particle B is given by:

- (A) (pA - p) / (pB - p)
- (B) V (pA - p)
- (C) (p₄ - p) / (pB)
- (D) (pB) / (pA - p)

# Q.42

Consider the scale-up of a cylindrical baffled vessel configured to have the standard geometry (i.e. Height = Diameter). In order to maintain an equal rate of mass transfer under turbulent conditions for Newtonian fluid, the ratio of the agitator speeds should be:

Given N₁ and D are agitator speed and vessel diameter before scale-up; N₂ and D₂ are agitator speed and vessel diameter after scale-up.

- (A) N₂ / N₁ = D₂ / D₁
- (B) N₂ / N₁ = D₁ / D₂
- (C) N₂ / N₁ = D₂³ / D₁³
- (D) N₂ / N₁ = D₁ / D₂³

# Q.43

Two plates of equal thickness and cross-sectional area are joined together to form a composite as shown in the figure. If the thermal conductivities of the plates are k and 2k, then the effective thermal conductivity of the composite is:

- (A) 3k/2
- (B) 4k/3
- (C) 3k/4
- (D) 2k/3
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

A metallic ball (p = 2700 kg/m3 and Cp = 0.9 kJ/kg °C) of diameter 7.5 cm is allowed to cool in air at 25°C. When the temperature of the ball is 125°C, it is found to cool at the rate of 4°C per minute.

The heat transfer coefficient (in W/m2 °C) is:

- (A) 2.034
- (B) 20.34
- (C) 81.36
- (D) 203.4

Hot liquid is flowing at a velocity of 2 m/s through a metallic pipe having an inner diameter of 3.5 cm and length 20 m. The temperature at the inlet of the pipe is 90°C. Following data is given for liquid at 90°C:

|Density|950 kg/m3|
|---|---|
|Specific heat|4.23 kJ/kg °C|
|Thermal conductivity|0.685 W/m °C|
|Viscosity|2.55 x 10-4 kg/m.s|

The heat transfer coefficient (in W/m2 °C) inside the tube is:

- (A) 222.22
- (B) H11.41
- (C) 22.22
- (D) H.41

The temperature profile for heat transfer from one fluid to another separated by a solid wall is:

- (A) Solid wall
- (B) Solid wall

Cold fluid

Warm fluid

Solid wall

Cold fluid

Warm fluid
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

0.47 directions is initially at concentration CAo:

A rectangular slab of thickness 2b along the x axis and extending to infinity along the other dimensions increased to CAW and maintained at that value. Solute A diffuses into the solid.

The dimensionless concentration C is defined as

C = - ~CAO / CAW - ~CAO

The diffusivity of A inside the solid is assumed constant: the following is the correct representation of the concentration profile? At a certain time instant, which ONE of the

|(B)|C|C| | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0|0| | | | |
|-1|xlb|xlb| | | |
| | |(D)|C| | |
|0|xlb|xlb| | | |

0.48 In a binary mixture containing components A and B, the relative volatility of A with respect to B is the compositions are however expressed in mass fractions the relative volatility will then be 2.5 when mole fractions are used. The molecular weights of A and B are 78 and 92 respectively. If

(A) 1.18
(B) 2.12
(C) 2.5
(D) 2.95
CH 1/24
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

An ideal flash vaporization is carried out with a binary mixture at constant temperature and pressure. A process upset leads to an increase in the mole fraction of the heavy component in the feed. The flash vessel continues to operate at the previous temperature and pressure and still produces liquid and vapor:

- After steady state is re-established, the amount of vapor produced will increase
- the amount of liquid produced will decrease
- (D) the new equilibrium compositions of the vapor and liquid products will remain as they were
- the new equilibrium compositions of the vapor and liquid products will be different before the upset occurred

A batch distillation operation is carried out to separate a feed containing 100 moles of a binary mixture of A and B. The mole fraction of A in the feed is 0.7. The distillation progresses until the mole fraction of A in the residue decreases to 0.6. Here X and Y are the mole fractions of the more volatile component A in the liquid and vapor phases respectively: The number of moles of residue may be linearized to y* = 0.7353 x + 0.3088.

(A) 73.53
(B) 48.02
(C) 40
(D) 30.24

A packed tower containing Berl saddles is operated with a gas-liquid system in the countercurrent mode. Keeping the gas flow rate constant; if the liquid flow rate is continuously increased:

- (A) the void fraction available for the gas to flow will decrease beyond the loading point
- (B) the gas pressure drop will decrease
- (C) liquid will continue to flow freely down the tower beyond the loading point
- (D) the entrainment of liquid in the gas will considerably decrease near the flooding point

In the figure: The area available for mass transfer from the disk is A and the volume of the initially pure organic solvent is V. The disk is rotated along the horizontal plane at a fixed rpm to produce a uniform concentration of the dissolving solute in the liquid. The convective mass transfer coefficient under these conditions is k: The equilibrium concentration of the solute in the solvent is C*. The time required for the concentration to reach 1% of the saturation value is given by:

(A) exp(-kAt) = 0.99
(B) exp(-k4t) = 0.01
(C) Akc exp(-0.99) = t
(D) Akc exp(0.01) = t
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

0.53 concentrations of P in air and water are 0.3 and 0.02 respectively water. Air concentrated with solute P is brought in contact with At steady state, the bulk the interface compositions is The equilibrium equation relating Ye;i 0.25 Xpi Pat the interface (YPi Assume that the mass transfer coefficients FG and FL are identical The gas phase mole fraction of is

|(A)|0.0663|
|---|---|
|(B)|0.075|
|(C)|0.16|
|(D)|0.3|

# Q.54

diagram below. Only the solute transfers into the solvent: The flow rates of all the streams are A feed (F) containing & solute is contacted with a solvent (S) in an ideal stage as shown in the compositions of the streams expressed on a mole ratio basis. The extract leaving the contactor is divided into two equal parts, one part collected as the product (P) and the other stream is recycled to join the solvent The equilibrium relationship is Y*=2X The product flow rate (Ps) and composition (Yout) are

|Feed (Fs), 100 molls|Raffinate (Rs), Xout|
|---|---|
|Xin = 0.3| |
|Solvent (Ss), 100 molls| |
|Yin = 0.0| |

Extractor Product (Ps), out

|(A)|Ps = 50 mol/s, Yout = 0.3|
|---|---|
|(B)|Ps = 100 mol/s, Yout = 0.2|
|(C)|Ps = 200 mol/s, Yout = 0.1|
|(D)|Ps = 100 mol/s, Yout = 0.4|

# 0.55

The gas phase reaction A + 3 B _ 2 C is conducted in a PFR at constant temperature and pressure. The PFR achieves conversion of 20% of A: The feed is a mixture of A, B and an inert [. It is found that the concentration of A remains the same throughout the reactor: Which ONE of the following ratios of inlet molar rates (FAin: FBin: FLin) is consistent with this observation? Assume the reaction mixture is an ideal gas mixture:

|(A)|2 : 3 : 0|
|---|---|
|(B)|2 : 2|
|(C)|3 : 2 : 1|
|(D)|1 : 2 : 1|
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# 0.56

The elementary liquid phase series-parallel reaction scheme is to be carried out in an isothermal CSTR. The rate laws are given by:

rR = KCA

rB = k CA - kCB

Feed is pure A. The space time of the CSTR which results in the maximum exit concentration of B is:

|(A)|Vkk'|
|---|---|
|(B)|Vk'(k+k')|
|(C)|(k+k')|
|(D)|Vk(k+k')|

# 0.57

The liquid phase reaction A → Products is governed by the kinetics:

~rA = kcA2

The time (in minutes) for complete conversion of A is:

|(A)|40/3|
|---|---|
|(B)|20|
|(C)|30|
|(D)|60|

# 0.58

A 30% conversion of A. The relevant specific heats and enthalpy change of reaction are given by:

Cp,A = 100 J /(mol K)

Cp,C = 150 J K/(mol K)

Cp,B = 50 J /(mol K), ΔHr = -100 kJ / mol

If the feed, a mixture of A and B, is available at 550 K, the mole fraction of A in the feed that is consistent with the above data is:

|(A)|5/7|
|---|---|
|(B)|1/4|
|(C)|1/2|
|(D)|2/7|
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# 0.59

The irreversible zero order reaction A &rarr; B takes place in a porous cylindrical catalyst that is sealed at both ends as shown in the figure. Assume dilute concentrations and neglect any variations in the axial direction.

The steady state concentration profile is CA = CAS - CL = l - ar-1 | where φ is the Thiele modulus. For φ = 4, the range of r where C4 = 0 is:

|(A)|0 &lt; r &lt; 7|
|---|---|
|(B)|0 &lt; r &lt; R|
|(C)|0 &le; r &le; 4|
|(D)|0 &lt; r &lt; R|

# Q.60

The unit impulse response of a first order process is given by 2e-0.5t. The gain and time constant of the process are, respectively:

|(A)|4 and 2|
|---|---|
|(B)|2 and 2|
|(C)|2 and 0.5|
|(D)|1 and 0.5|

# 0.61

A unit step input is given to a process that is represented by the transfer function (s + 2)/(s + 5). The initial value (t = 0+) of the response of the process to the step input is:

|(A)|0|
|---|---|
|(B)|2/5|
|(C)|1|
|(D)|&infin;|

# 0.62

A tank of volume 0.25 m3 and height 1 m has water flowing in at 0.05 m/min. The outlet flow rate is given by Fout = 0.1h where h is the height of the water in the tank in m and Fout is the outlet flow rate in m3/min; The inlet flow rate changes suddenly from its nominal value of 0.05 m3/min to 0.15 m3/min and remains there. The time (in minutes) at which the tank will begin to overflow is given by:

|(A)|0.28|
|---|---|
|(B)|1.01|
|(C)|1.73|
|(D)|&infin;|
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# Q.63

Which ONE of the following transfer functions corresponds to an inverse response process with a positive gain?

|(A)|2s + 1|3s + 1|
|---|---|---|
|(B)|S + 1|5 + 10|
|(C)|(2s + 1)(s + 1)| |
|(D)|S + 1|2s + 1|

# 0.64

Match the following

|GROUP A|GROUP 2|
|---|---|
|(P) Temperature|(1) Hot wire anemometry|
|(Q) Pressure|(2) Strain Gauge|
|(R) Flow|(3) Chromatographic analyzer|
| |(4) Pyrometer|

(A) P-1, Q-2, R-3

(B) P-4, Q-1, R-3

(C) P-1, Q-2, R-4

(D) P-4, Q-2, R-1

# 0.65

Match the following

|GROUP A|GROUP 2|
|---|---|
|(P) Ziegler Nichols|(1) Process Reaction Curve|
|(Q) Under damped response|(2) Decay ratio|
|(R) Feed-forward Control|(3) Frequency Response|
| |(4) Disturbance measurement|

(A) P-3, Q-2, R-4

(B) P-1, Q-2, R-3

(C) P-3, Q-4, R-2

(D) P-1, Q-4, R-2

# 0.66

A reactor has been installed at a cost of Rs 50,000 and is expected to have a working life of 10 years with a scrap value of Rs 10,000. The capitalized cost (in Rs.) of the reactor based on an annual compound interest rate of 5% is

|(A)|1,13,600|
|---|---|
|(B)|42,000|
|(C)|52,500|
|(D)|10,500|

# 0.67

In a shell and tube heat exchanger; if the shell length is Ls; the baffle spacing is LB and the thickness of baffle is tb, the number of baffles on the shell side, NB, is

|(A)|LB + tb|Ls|
|---|---|---|
|(B)|LB + tb = 1|LS|
|(C)|LB + tb|Ls + 1|
|(D)|Ls + 2|LB + tb|
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# 0.68

Match the unit processes in Group 1 with the industries in Group 2

|GROUP 1|GROUP 2|
|---|---|
|(P) Saponification|(1) Petroleum refining|
|(Q) Calcination|(2) Synthetic fibres|
|(R) Alkylation|(3) Cement|
| |Soaps and Detergents|

(A) P-1, Q-3, R-4

(B) P-2, Q-3, R-4

(C) P-4, Q-2, R-1

(D) P-4, Q-3, R-1

# 0.69

Which ONE of the following process sequences is used in the production of synthesis gas?

(A) Desulphurization → Steam reforming → Hot K2CO2 cycle

(B) Steam reforming → Desulphurization → Hot K2CO2 cycle

(C) Hot K2CO2 cycle → Steam reforming → Desulphurization

(D) Hot K2CO2 cycle → Desulphurization → Steam reforming

# 0.70

Which ONE of the following process sequences is used in the sugar industry?

(A) Ca3PO4 Lime Treatment → Crystallization → Crushing

(B) Ca3PO4 Lime Treatment → Multiple stage evaporation + Crystallization

(C) Crushing → Crystallization → Ca3PO4 Lime Treatment

(D) Multiple stage evaporation → Crystallization → Ca3PO4 Lime Treatment
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# Common Data Questions

# Common Data for Questions 71, 72 and 73:

Methane and steam are fed to a reactor in molar ratio 1:2. The following reactions take place:

CH4 (g) + 2H2O (g) &rarr; CO2 (g) + 4H2 (g)

CH4 (g) + H2O (g) &rarr; 3CO (g) + 3H2 (g)

The stream has the following composition where CO2 is the desired product; CO is the undesired product and H2 is a byproduct:

|Species|CH4|H2O|CO2|H2|CO|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Mole %|4.35|10.88|15.21|67.39|2.17|

# 0.71

The selectivity for desired product relative to undesired product is:

- (A) 2.3
- (B) 3.5
- (C) 7
- (D) 8

# 0.72

The fractional yield of CO2 is (where fractional yield is defined as the ratio of moles of the desired product formed to the moles that would have been formed if there were no side reactions and the limiting reactant had reacted completely):

- (A) 0.7
- (B) 0.88
- (C) 1
- (D) 3.5

# Q.73

The fractional conversion of methane is:

- (A) 0.4
- (B) 0.5
- (C) 0.7
- (D) 0.8

# Common Data for Questions 74 and 75:

A liquid is flowing through a reactor at a constant flow rate. A rate of 1 mol/min is given to the reactor at time t = 0. The time variation of the concentration (C) of the tracer at the exit of the reactor is as shown in the figure:

1

5 t, min

# 0.74

The volumetric flow rate of the liquid through the reactor (in L/min) is:

- (A) 1
- (B) 2
- (C) 1.5
- (D) 4

# 0.75

The mean residence time of the fluid in the reactor (in minutes) is:

- (A) 1
- (B) 2
- (C) 3
- (D) 4
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

Linked Answer Questions: Q.76 to Q.85 carry two marks each

# Statement for Linked Answer Questions 76 and 77:

A binary mixture containing species 1 and 2 forms an azeotrope at 105.4°C and 1.013 bar. The pure liquid phase mole fraction of component 1 (Xi) of this azeotrope is 0.62. The component vapor pressures for species 1 and 2 are 0.878 bar and 0.665 bar, respectively. Assume that the vapor phase is an ideal gas mixture. The van Laar constants, A and B, are given by the expressions:

A = 1 + X2 ln Y1
B = 1 + X1 ln Y2

# Q.76 The activity coefficients (Y1, Y2) under these conditions are

- (A) (0.88, 0.66)
- (B) (1.15, 1.52)
- (C) (1.52, 1.15)
- (D) (1.52, 0.88)

# Q.77 The van Laar constants (A, B) are

- (A) (0.92, 0.87)
- (B) (1.00, 1.21)
- (C) (1.12, 1.00)
- (D) (1.52, 1.15)

# Statement for Linked Answer Questions 78 and 79:

A siphon tube having a diameter of 2 cm draws water from a large open reservoir and discharges into the open atmosphere as shown in the figure. Assume incompressible fluid and neglect frictional losses (g = 9.8 m/s2).

2 m

5 m

# Q.78 The velocity (in m/s) at the discharge point is

- (A) 9.9
- (B) 11.7
- (C) 98
- (D) 136.9

# Q.79 The volumetric flow rate (in L/s) of water at the discharge is

- (A) 3.11
- (B) 3.67
- (C) 30.77
- (D) 42.99

CH 19/24
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# Statement for Linked Answer Questions 80 & 81:

The liquid phase reaction A (CSTR + PFR) is 95% followed by a PFR in series. Products is to be carried out at constant temperature in a CSTR. The CSTR has a volume of 75 liters. The overall conversion of A achieved by the reactor system is given by 2 mol/liter and a volumetric flow rate of 4 liters/min. The kinetics of the concentration of pure A is fed to the CSTR at a concentration of:

~rA = 0.1C4 mol/liter . min

# Q.80 The conversion achieved by the CSTR is

- (A) 40%
- (B) 50%
- (C) 60%
- (D) 80%

# Q.81 The volume of the PFR required (in liters) is

- (A) 380
- (B) 350
- (C) 75
- (D) 35

# Statement for Linked Answer Questions 82 and 83:

A thin liquid film flows at steady state along a vertical surface as shown in the figure: The average velocity of the liquid film is 0.05 m/s. The viscosity of the liquid is 1 cP and its density is 1000 kg/m3. The length of the wall is 2 m and its width is 0.5 m. The initially pure liquid absorbs a sparingly soluble gas from air as it flows down; the solubility of the gas in the liquid is 3.4 x 10-2 kmol/m3 and isothermal conditions may be assumed.

Wall

Liquid

Air

Liquid film thickness: 0.124 mm

# Q.82 If the exit average concentration in the liquid is measured to be 14 x 10-2 kmol/m3, the total mass transfer rate (in kmol/s) of the sparingly soluble gas into the liquid is

- (A) 0.133 x 10-4
- (B) 0.434 x 10-7
- (C) 3.4 x 10-2
- (D) 17 x 10-2

# Q.83 The mass transfer coefficient Kcs, avg (in m/s), averaged along the length of the vertical surface is

- (A) 2.94 x 10-6
- (B) 2.27 x 10-6
- (C) 1.94 x 10-6
- (D) 1.65 x 10-6
---
# 2008

# MAIN PAPER

# Statement for Linked Answer Questions 84 and 85:

control the process represented by the transfer function

The cross-over frequency associated with a feedback loop employing a proportional controller to

Gp(s) = (€s+1)2 (units of time is minutes)

is found to be 0.6 rad/min: Assume that the measurement and valve transfer functions are unity.

# Q.84 The time constant; T (in minutes) is

(A) 1.14
(B) 1.92
(C) 3.23
(D) 5.39
# Q.85 If the control loop is to operate at a gain margin of 2.0, the gain of the proportional controller must equal

(A) 0.85
(B) 2.87
(C) 3.39
(D) 11.50
END OF THE QUESTION PAPER